
 - SOCIAL MEDIA AND THE TEEN MENTAL HEALTH CRISIS

[Senate Hearing 118-663]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



                                                        S. Hrg. 118-663

                    SOCIAL MEDIA AND THE TEEN MENTAL
                             HEALTH CRISIS

=======================================================================




                                HEARING

                               before the

                        SUBCOMMITTEE ON PRIVACY,
                        TECHNOLOGY, AND THE LAW

                                 of the

                       COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY
                          UNITED STATES SENATE

                    ONE HUNDRED EIGHTEENTH CONGRESS

                             FIRST SESSION
                               __________

                            NOVEMBER 7, 2023
                               __________

                          Serial No. J-118-42
                               __________

         Printed for the use of the Committee on the Judiciary




              [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]




                        www.judiciary.senate.gov
                            www.govinfo.gov
                                                       
                                ------
                                
                  U.S. GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE

60-432                    WASHINGTON : 2025                             
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            



















                            
                            
                       COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY

                   RICHARD J. DURBIN, Illinois, Chair
SHELDON WHITEHOUSE, Rhode Island     LINDSEY O. GRAHAM, South Carolina, 
AMY KLOBUCHAR, Minnesota               Ranking Member
CHRISTOPHER A. COONS, Delaware       CHARLES E. GRASSLEY, Iowa
RICHARD BLUMENTHAL, Connecticut      JOHN CORNYN, Texas
MAZIE K. HIRONO, Hawaii              MICHAEL S. LEE, Utah
CORY A. BOOKER, New Jersey           TED CRUZ, Texas
ALEX PADILLA, California             JOSH HAWLEY, Missouri
JON OSSOFF, Georgia                  TOM COTTON, Arkansas
PETER WELCH, Vermont                 JOHN KENNEDY, Louisiana
LAPHONZA BUTLER, California          THOM TILLIS, North Carolina
                                     MARSHA BLACKBURN, Tennessee
             Joseph Zogby, Chief Counsel and Staff Director
      Katherine Nikas, Republican Chief Counsel and Staff Director



            Subcommittee on Privacy, Technology, and the Law

                 RICHARD BLUMENTHAL, Connecticut, Chair
AMY KLOBUCHAR, Minnesota             JOSH HAWLEY, Missouri, Ranking 
CHRISTOPHER A. COONS, Delaware         Member
MAZIE K. HIRONO, Hawaii              JOHN KENNEDY, Louisiana
ALEX PADILLA, California             MARSHA BLACKBURN, Tennessee
JON OSSOFF, Georgia                  MICHAEL S. LEE, Utah
                                     JOHN CORNYN, Texas
                Cassie Fields, Democratic Chief Counsel
            Julissa Milligan Walsh, Republican Chief Counsel






































            
                            C O N T E N T S

                              ----------                              

                           OPENING STATEMENTS

                                                                   Page

Durbin, Hon. Richard J...........................................     5
Graham, Hon. Lindsey O...........................................     6
Blumenthal, Hon. Richard.........................................     1
Hawley, Hon. Josh................................................     3
Blackburn, Hon. Marsha...........................................

                                WITNESS

Bejar, Arturo....................................................     7
    Prepared statement...........................................    38

                                APPENDIX

Items submitted for the record...................................    53


 
                    SOCIAL MEDIA AND THE TEEN MENTAL
                             HEALTH CRISIS

                              ----------                              

                       TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2023

                      United States Senate,
               Subcommittee on Privacy, Technology,
                                       and the Law,
                                Committee on the Judiciary,
                                                    Washington, DC.
    The Subcommittee met, pursuant to notice, at 10:03 a.m., in 
Room 226, Dirksen Senate Office Building, Hon. Richard Blumen-
thal, Chair of the Subcommittee, presiding.
    Present: Senators Blumenthal [presiding], Klobuchar, Coons, 
Hirono, Hawley, Kennedy, Blackburn, and Cornyn.
    Also present: Senators Durbin, Graham, Welch, and Butler.

         OPENING STATEMENT OF HON. RICHARD BLUMENTHAL,
          A U.S. SENATOR FROM THE STATE OF CONNECTICUT

    Chair Blumenthal. This hearing of the Judiciary 
Subcommittee on Technology, Privacy, and the Law will come to 
order. Thank you, everyone, for attending.
    My thanks to Ranking Member Hawley, and particularly to the 
Chairman of the Judiciary Committee, Dick Durbin, for giving us 
this opportunity, and he is vitally interested in this topic, 
and I'm going to call on him after Senator Hawley for his 
remarks.
    We are gathered today to ear testimony from a whistleblower 
and engineer, widely respected and admired in the industry. And 
not just any expert, but an engineer hired specifically by 
Facebook to help protect against harms to children and make 
recommendations for making Facebook safer.
    We've known for more than a decade that rates of teens 
suffering from suicides, hospitalizations for self-harm, and 
depression have skyrocketed.
    As he knows, these numbers are more than statistics. 
They're real people, and his daughter is one of them. Arturo 
Bejar is the former director of engineering for Protect and 
Care at Facebook, and he will tell us about the evidence he 
brought directly to the attention of the top management of 
Facebook and Meta, Mark Zuckerberg, Sheryl Sandberg, and others 
in meetings and memos.
    He resoundingly raised an alarm about statistics showing 
Facebook's prevalent and pernicious harms to teens--telling 
Mark Zuckerberg, for example, in a memo that more than half of 
Facebook users had bad or harmful experience just within the 
last week.
    Instead of real reform, he will testify that Facebook 
engaged in a purposeful public strategy of distraction, denial, 
and deception.
    They hid from this Committee and all of Congress evidence 
of the harms that they knew was credible. And they ignored and 
disregarded recommendations for making the site safer, and they 
even rolled back some of the existing protection.
    Now, Mr. Bejar is not the first or the only whistleblower 
to come forward. We heard from Frances Haugen who showed that 
Facebook's own researchers described Instagram itself as a, 
quote, ``perfect storm,'' end quote, and that it, quote, 
``exacerbates downward spirals of addiction, eating disorders, 
and depression.''
    Mr. Bejar is the first to show in documents--not just in 
his recollection, but in documents how he warned the top 
management of Facebook and Instagram of the ongoing harms their 
products were causing. We're going to present those documents 
for the record, and they show, for example, that over a quarter 
of young teens, 13 to 15 years old, report receiving sexual 
advances on Instagram.
    [Poster is displayed.]
    Chair Blumenthal. Nearly a third of young teens have seen 
discrimination based on gender, religion, race, and sexual 
orientation.
    A quarter of young teens report having been bullied or 
threatened.
    And nearly a quarter of young teens report experiencing 
feeling worse about themselves, about their bodies, and their 
social relationship. The type of experience that lead to 
serious depression and eating disorders.
    And when users reported harmful content to Facebook, it 
took action only 2 percent of the time. Remedies only 2 percent 
of the time.
    There's a history here. In August of 2021, Senator 
Blackburn and I wrote to Facebook about the impact of their 
products on kids. We asked, quote, ``Has Facebook research ever 
found that its platforms and products can have a negative 
effect on children's and teens' mental health or well-being? '' 
Facebook refused to answer.
    In October of 2021, Senator Blackburn and I held a hearing. 
We heard from Frances Haugen about Instagram's harms, and on 
that same day, Mr. Bejar sent an email to Mark Zuckerberg, 
Sheryl Sandberg, Adam Mosseri, and other executives validating 
Ms. Haugen's testimony.
    That email actually demonstrated even greater harms than 
were then public--a chilling and searing indictment of 
Instagram and Facebook. And I'm going to ask that it be made 
part of the record, without objection.
    [The information appears as a submission for the record.]
    In December of 2021, Mr. Mosseri then testified to the 
Committee--to our Subcommittee, after he met with Mr. Bejar 
discussing these numbers and statistics relating to suicide. 
And during that hearing, a number of us asked him about 
Facebook promoting suicide.
    Mr. Mosseri knew--but he didn't disclose--that on a weekly 
basis, around 7 percent of Facebook users overall encounter 
content promoting suicide and self-harm, with 13- to 15-year-
olds seeing it more often than others.
    There's a pattern here with Facebook. It hides risks by 
saying things like bullying and harassment is only 0.08 percent 
of content.
    When in reality, Meta executives know that 11 percent of 
those 13- to 15-year-olds face bullying every single week--
every single week on Instagram.
    And just to be absolutely clear, that's millions of 
children and teenagers. It's not just a number. Behind every 
one of those numbers, is a real person, a teenager, a child 
whose life is changed--maybe forever, by that searing 
experience of bullying, eating disorder content, suicide 
promotion.
    We can no longer rely on social media's mantra, ``Trust 
us.'' We can no longer depend on its putting the blame or 
responsibility on parents.
    What's needed now is legislative reform, the Kids Online 
Safety Act. Senator Blackburn and I have enlisted more than 45 
of our colleagues, almost half the United States Senate, in 
favor of the Kids Online Safety Act.
    And the final point I would make is that social media, in 
particular Facebook, still fails to take these threats 
seriously.
    This June, The Wall Street Journal found that Instagram was 
hosting open markets for child abuse material, even 
recommending pedophiles to each other. Young teens were being 
extorted and coerced into sexual acts. Instagram was complicit.
    Mr. Bejar, you provided Mark Zuckerberg, Adam Mosseri, and 
others in management, with specific recommendation to prevent 
teens from experiencing this unwanted sexual contact and 
harassment. Those recommendations were never adopted. You have 
put your career on the line to come forward--an experienced and 
trusted industry expert whose job was to make Facebook safer, 
and your recommendations were purposefully ignored, or 
disregarded, or rejected.
    I'm just going to remind my colleagues that we've heard 
from young people as well as parents about these harms, and one 
of them told me, ``How many more children have to die before 
Congress will do something? '' That's why we're here today, and 
I want to thank all of my colleagues who are present--truly a 
bipartisan group on behalf of this cause and turn to the 
Ranking Member, Senator Hawley.

             OPENING STATEMENT OF HON. JOSH HAWLEY,
           A U.S. SENATOR FROM THE STATE OF MISSOURI

    Senator Hawley. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank 
you for convening this hearing. This is such a vital hearing on 
a vital topic, and to be honest with you, this hearing 
concerns, I think, every parent's nightmare.
    And I see you're nodding, Mr. Bejar. You're a father, that 
subject composes--that reality composes some of your testimony. 
I'm also a father of three, and what you have brought to this 
Committee today is something that every parent in America needs 
to hear. The numbers are really stunning. That one in four 
teenagers, minor children will experience sexual solicitation 
on Meta's platforms at some point. One in eight say that they 
have experienced unwanted sexual advances.
    We're talking about children now. These are not adults. 
Children have experienced unwanted sexual advances just in the 
last week, within the last 7 days.
    And, of course, we know from Meta's own internal research 
that they knew the extent of this problem even as they were 
ignoring you. And I want to turn to some of that research that 
Senator Blumenthal just referenced.
    Here's what Meta--these are Meta's own words from their own 
internal research on the effect of their own product on 
children, particularly young women. Quote: ``We make body image 
issues worse for one in three teen girls.''
    Quote: ``Teens blame Instagram for increases in the rate of 
anxiety and depression. This reaction was unprompted and 
consistent across all groups.''
    Quote: ``Teens told us they don't like the amount of time 
they spend on the app, but they feel they have to be present. 
They often feel addicted and know that what they're seeing is 
bad for their mental health, but feel unable to stop 
themselves.''
    This is the reality that Meta and Instagram, Facebook, they 
knew these things were happening. These quotes are years old 
that I just read. You pointed this out to them, too, Mr. Bejar, 
and still they did nothing.
    In fact, they did worse than nothing. And what your 
testimony shows is, when you brought these concerns to them, 
when you exposed this reality, rather than respond, they cooked 
the books.
    If I understand your testimony correctly, they started 
telling the public, including Congress and, of course, every 
parent in America that, ``Oh, we get 90 percent of unwanted 
sexual material, child sex abuse material, pornography, 
terrorism threats--we take it down. Our AI systems find it and 
take it down.''
    But what you expose is, in fact, those AI systems are 
catching only a small, small percentage of that kind of abusive 
material online.
    So when Facebook is out there promoting to the world, ``Oh, 
we're taking down the vast majority,'' it's simply not true. 
And in fact, they know it's not true. And that statistic is 
designed to mislead.
    They are deliberately misleading parents about what's on 
their platform. They are deliberately misleading parents about 
the safety of their children online.
    And I just want to echo something that Senator Blumenthal 
has said: It is time for Congress to take action. It was time 
years ago for Congress to take action. It is--it is an 
indictment of this body, to be honest with you, that we have 
not acted. And we all know the reason why.
    If I could just start with a little plain talk here this 
morning. Big Tech is the biggest, most powerful lobby in the 
United States Congress. They spend millions upon millions upon 
millions of dollars every year to lobby this body. And the 
truth is, as every reporter in this room knows, and I hope 
you'll report it after this hearing, they do it successfully.
    They successfully shut down every meaningful piece of 
legislation every year. I've only been here for 4 years and I 
have seen it repeatedly, in the short time I have been here.
    We'll get all kinds of speeches in Committee, we'll get 
speeches on the floor about how we have to act, and then this 
body will do nothing. Why? Money, that's why. Gobs of it. Gobs 
of it--influencing votes. A hammer hold on this process.
    It is time for it to be broken. And the only way I know to 
break it is to bring the truth forward. And that's why we are 
so glad, Mr. Bejar, that you are here today to do it. Thank 
you, Mr. Chairman.
    Chair Blumenthal. Thanks, Senator Hawley. The only footnote 
I would add is, this time must be different.
    Senator Hawley. That's right.
    Chair Blumenthal. They have armies of lawyers and 
lobbyists. They spend tons of money, but this time must be 
different. Senator Durbin.

          OPENING STATEMENT OF HON. RICHARD J. DURBIN,
           A U.S. SENATOR FROM THE STATE OF ILLINOIS

    Chair Durbin. Thank you, Chairman Blumenthal and Senator 
Hawley.
    And let me follow up with Senator Hawley's comments. I 
couldn't agree more. I could not agree more.
    And in the Senate Judiciary Committee, after some graphic 
hearings where parents and victims came forward and told us 
what had happened to them online, we decided to take action.
    We passed six bills related to this issue--child sexual 
abuse and similar issues--six bills. And something happened 
that was miraculous: All six passed unanimously. Every Democrat 
and every Republican. Take a look at the folks who are up--are 
on the ends of the table. It's across the political spectrum. 
We all agreed on this. What has happened since? Nothing.
    Six bills waiting for a day on the calendar. Six bills 
waiting for a national debate. Six bills passed unanimously on 
a bipartisan basis. And they put real teeth in enforcement, 
too.
    And I think that's why they've gone nowhere. Big Tech is 
the big kid on the block when it comes to this issue--and many 
other issues before us. That's the reality.
    I want to thank Chairman Blumenthal and Senator Hawley for 
bringing together so many Members at this hearing.
    Our philosophy in putting together the Subcommittees was to 
say to each of the Senators in charge of them, ``Do your best. 
Take your issue that means something to you and do your best to 
bring it to the American people and legislation to the floor of 
the United States Senate.''
    This Committee is one that I'm counting on to be successful 
in this regard.
    Mr. Bejar, thank you for the courage of stepping up and 
speaking up. The only amendment I would make to the Chairman's 
remarks and Senator Hawley's is, it's not only a parent's 
issue, it's a grandparent's issue, too. We see this and it 
scares the hell out of us.
    So thank you for what you've brought us today. I'm 
particularly intrigued by your idea of a survey so that we find 
out from the source what's really happening.
    My experience at Capitol Hill goes back several years. I 
took on a tobacco issue. We were hitting our head against the 
wall trying to penetrate this vast lobby at the time.
    The one way we managed to penetrate it was to make it a 
children's issue. Protecting kids from addiction to tobacco. 
And then a lot of good things started happening.
    Why is it that this issue, which relates to our kids so 
much more and is so much more dangerous even than tobacco, in 
my estimation, why is it so difficult?
    Senator Hawley's correct. We're really fighting the biggest 
kid on the block when it comes to this issue. Thank you, Mr. 
Chairman.
    Chair Blumenthal. Thanks very much, Senator Durbin and 
thank you for your leadership on this issue.
    I'm going to turn to Senator Graham if he has some opening 
remarks, and then to Senator Blackburn.

          OPENING STATEMENT OF HON. LINDSEY O. GRAHAM,
        A U.S. SENATOR FROM THE STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA

    Senator Graham. Very quickly. Maybe number seven is the 
magic number of bills--the next bill, I hope.
    And thank you Senator Blumenthal and Hawley for doing this, 
is to sunset Section 230. The other bills are going nowhere 
until they believe they can be sued in court. The day they know 
the courtroom is open to their business practices, they will 
flood us with all kind of good ideas.
    Until that day comes, nothing's going to happen.
    And I said as we passed them, ``They're going to go to the 
floor to die and be on Senator Schumer, Senator McConnell.''
    What's the House doing? Not much.
    So the bottom line is, a society that cannot take care of 
its children--or refuses to--has a bleak future.
    So thank you for doing this.
    Chair Blumenthal. Thanks, Senator Graham. Senator 
Blackburn.

          OPENING STATEMENT OF HON. MARSHA BLACKBURN,
           A U.S. SENATOR FROM THE STATE OF TENNESSEE

    Senator Blackburn. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    And Mr. Bejar, thank you so much. Thank you for the time 
that you've given Senator Blumenthal's staff, my staff, as 
you've met with us, and for being so open when you met with 
Senator Blumenthal and I last week. I really appreciate this.
    As Senator Blumenthal said--and we have worked on this for 
years, and he built the timeline out going to 2021.
    But the work we were doing, looking at Big Tech and looking 
at some of the problems, the lack of privacy, the frustration 
of people not being able to control who had access to their 
virtual ``you,'' is what led us to this point to begin to look 
at what was happening to our children.
    And, as I told you in our meeting, the day we had that 
first hearing--looking at what was happening online with 
children--it was like the floodgates opened. And we started 
hearing from moms and dads--not only in Tennessee and not only 
in Connecticut, but across the country--who were saying, ``Can 
I please tell you my story? ''
    The reason they did this is because their hearts were 
breaking.
    Their children had committed suicide.
    Their children had met a drug dealer.
    Their children had met a pedophile.
    Their child had met a sex trafficker.
    They had been exposed to cyber bullying and had committed 
suicide.
    They were looking up ways to commit suicide.
    See, there are laws in the physical world that protect 
children from all of this. But online, it has been the Wild 
West. And as my colleagues have said, we have fought this army 
of lobbyists for years.
    Big Tech has proven they are completely incapable of 
governing themselves, of setting up rules, of having 
guidelines, of designing for safety. And it is so important 
that we move forward with this.
    Now, one thing I will add--and I think is so important for 
your being here and for our colleagues that weren't a part of 
what we were doing.
    In 2021, Mr. Mosseri, when he came before us as the CEO of 
Instagram, indicated they were taking steps.
    But we find out they were not. We find out from the advice 
and the awareness that you provided Mark Zuckerberg and Mr. 
Mosseri, what did they do with that? They made a conscious 
decision to ignore your advice and guidance and used our kids 
as the product.
    The longer they're online, the richer that data is.
    The richer the data is, the more money they make.
    So they have monetized what comes from our children being 
addicted to social media.
    Thank you so much for being here today. Thank you, Mr. 
Chairman.
    Chair Blumenthal. Thanks, Senator Blackburn.
    Let me introduce--formally introduce the witness. Arturo 
Bejar is a former security engineer with very significant 
experience working on user safety and well-being.
    At Facebook he served as director of engineering for 
Protect and Care, a specific team at Facebook from 2009 to 
2015. He reported to the CTO.
    He then came back as a consultant to help Instagram's Well-
Being Team from 2019 to 2021. He is also a parent to a 
courageous young girl--young woman who spoke up about her 
experiences online.
    Mr. Bejar, as is our custom, I'm going to administer the 
oath to you now. If you would stand, please.
    [Witness is sworn in.]
    Chair Blumenthal. Thank you. Please go ahead.

 STATEMENT OF ARTURO BEJAR, FORMER DIRECTOR OF ENGINEERING FOR 
        PROTECT AND CARE, FACEBOOK, BERKELEY, CALIFORNIA

    Mr. Bejar. Chairman Durbin, Ranking Member Graham, Chairman 
Blumenthal, Ranking Member Hawley, and Members of the 
Subcommittee, thank you for the opportunity to appear before 
you and for your interest in addressing one of the most urgent 
threats to our children today--to American children, and 
children everywhere.
    My name is Arturo Bejar, and I appear before you today as a 
dad with firsthand experience of a child who received unwanted 
sexual advances on Instagram.
    As an expert with over 20 years of experience working as a 
senior leader, including leading online security for--and 
safety and protection at Facebook, it is unacceptable that a 
13-year-old girl gets propositioned on social media.
    Unfortunately, it happens all too frequently today. In a 
carefully designed survey by Instagram in 2021, we found that 
one in eight kids age 13 to 15 years old, experienced unwanted 
sexual advances in the last 7 days.
    This is unacceptable, and my work has shown that it doesn't 
need to be this way.
    Starting in 2009, I was the engineering and product leader 
for Facebook's efforts to reduce online threats to both 
children and adults. I met regularly with senior executives, 
including Mark Zuckerberg, and they were supportive of this 
work.
    As a parent, I took the work personally, and I worked hard 
to help create a safer environment. By the time I left in 2015, 
I felt the work was going in the right direction.
    A few years later, my 14-year-old daughter joined 
Instagram. She and her friends began having awful experiences, 
including repeated unwanted sexual advances, harassment. She 
reported these incidents to the company and it did nothing.
    In large part--because of what I learned as her father--in 
October of 2019, I returned to Facebook, this time as a 
consultant with Instagram's Well-Being Team.
    We tried to set goals based on the experiences of teens 
themselves. Instead, the company wanted to focus on enforcing 
its own narrowly defined policies, regardless of whether that 
approach reduced the harm that teens were experiencing. I 
discovered that most of the tools for kids that we had put in 
place during my earlier time at Facebook had been removed.
    I observed new features being developed in response to 
public outcry, which were, in reality, kind of a placebo--a 
safety feature in name only to placate the press and 
regulators.
    I say this because rather than being based on user 
experience data, they were based on very deliberately narrow 
definitions of harm. The company was creating its own homework.
    For example, Instagram knows when a kid spends a 
significant amount of time looking at harmful content, content 
that they are recommending. Meta must be held accountable for 
their recommendations and for the unwanted sexual advances that 
Instagram enables.
    As soon as I understood this gap, I did what I had always 
done. I researched the problem, vetted the numbers, and 
informed Mark Zuckerberg, Sheryl Sandberg, and other 
executives. I did this because for 6 years, that was my job, to 
let them know of critical issues that affected the company.
    It's been 2 years since I left, and these are the 
conclusions I have come to.
    One, Meta knows the harm that kids experience on their 
platform, and the executives know that their measures fail to 
address it.
    Two, there are actionable steps that Meta could take to 
address the problem.
    And three, they are deciding time and time again to not 
tackle these issues.
    Instagram is the largest public directory of teenagers with 
pictures in the history of the world. Meta, which owns 
Instagram, is a company where all work is driven by data, but 
it has been unwilling to be transparent about data regarding 
the harm that kids experience and unwilling to reduce them.
    Social media companies must be required to become more 
transparent, so that parents and public can hold them 
accountable.
    Many have come to accept the false proposition that 
sexualized content, unwanted advances, bullying, misogyny, and 
other harms are unavoidable evil. This is just not true.
    We don't tolerate unwanted sexual advances against children 
in any other public context, and they can similarly be 
prevented on Facebook, Instagram, and other social media 
products.
    What is the acceptable frequency for kids to receive 
unwanted sexual advances? This is an urgent crisis.
    When asked, ``Has anyone threatened you, damaged your 
reputation, insulted you, disrespected you, excluded you, or 
left you out? '' 11 percent of kids said, ``Yes, in the last 
week.'' And one in four witnessed it happening, and the company 
does nothing about that.
    When asked if they saw a post that made them feel bad about 
themselves, one in five kids said, ``Yes, in the last week.''
    Meta executives know this. The public now knows this.
    When I left Facebook in 2021, I thought the company would 
take my concerns and recommendations seriously to heart--and 
act. Yet years have gone by and millions of teens are having 
their mental health compromised and are still being traumatized 
by unwanted sexual advances, harmful content on Instagram and 
other social media platforms.
    There was a time when at home, on the weekend at least, a 
kid could escape these things, these harms.
    But today, just about every parent and grandparent has seen 
their kids' faces change from happiness, to grief, to distress, 
the moment that they check social media. Where can a child seek 
refuge?
    It's time the public and parents understand the true level 
of harm enabled by these products, and it's time for Congress 
to act. Thank you for your time.
    [The prepared statement of Mr. Bejar appears as a 
submission for the record.]
    Chair Blumenthal. Thanks, Mr. Bejar.
    We're going to now begin with questions and each of us will 
ask 5 minutes of questions and because of the turnout, I'm 
going to limit it to 5 minutes and then we'll have a second-
round if folks want to do that.
    You know, we put in the record your memo to Mark Zuckerberg 
of October 5th where you recommend that there be, in effect, 
not only a change in the business practice of the company, but 
a culture shift, as you call it. And then you wrote to Mr. 
Mosseri separately on October 14th--I'm going to ask that that 
document be made part of the record as well--where you 
presented more of these statistics and very powerful evidence 
of harm.
    [The information appears as a submission for the record.]
    Chair Blumenthal. And it seems to me that the reaction was 
to pat you on the head and, in effect, tell you to go away, be 
a good boy, and pull the curtain.
    Senator Hawley has referred to cooking the books.
    I think what they did was bury this evidence, conceal it, 
hide it, and deny it, in effect, to Congress and to the public.
    And then, in the past year, they've actually cut around 
21,000 jobs or a quarter of the global workforce in what Mark 
Zuckerberg has called the year of efficiency. Hundreds of jobs 
involving content moderators and safety jobs, including from 
Instagram's Well-Being Team. What is the impact of cutting 
those resources devoted to online safety?
    Mr. Bejar. Thank you for the question. If you start from 
the point that the work was already heavily under-resourced 
when I was there, that we were dealing 20 percent, 10 percent 
of people experiencing this, and that there was a small 
fraction of people dedicated to address that harm, and then 
they take more resources away from that, including the people 
who are doing the work to understand the harm that kids are 
experiencing, then it seems to me that the company culture is 
one of see no evil, hear no evil. We don't want to understand 
what people are experiencing and we were not willing to invest 
in that and the tools that will help.
    Chair Blumenthal. Thank you. We spoke in advance of the 
hearing and you told me a story about meeting with another 
senior executive, Chris Cox, Facebook's chief product officer. 
And it was just so striking to me that he already knew a lot of 
the numbers and statistics and evidence of harm that you were 
bringing to Mark Zuckerberg's attention. Why was this meeting 
so memorable to you?
    Mr. Bejar. When I returned in 2019, I thought they didn't 
know. Like, when I began seeing a culture that was consistently 
ignoring what teens were experiencing, I thought that 
executives did not know.
    And I did spend a year researching, vetting, validating 
with people across the organization. And I would ask people, 
``Do you know what percentage of people are experiencing this? 
''
    And nobody was able to answer off the top of their head.
    The first person to do that was Chris Cox. And I found it 
heartbreaking because it meant that they knew and that they 
were not acting on it.
    Chair Blumenthal. In effect, their expressed caring about 
teens and safety and protecting children was all a charade, a 
mockery. They already had the evidence that you were bringing 
to their attention. They knew about it and they disregarded it. 
Correct?
    Mr. Bejar. Yes, that's correct.
    Chair Blumenthal. And then they rejected your 
recommendations for making Facebook and Instagram safer. 
Correct?
    Mr. Bejar. That's correct.
    Chair Blumenthal. And let me ask you before we go to our 
next Senator, do you think that we, the Congress of the United 
States, should now act? Don't you think action is long overdue 
in this area, given the total lack of credibility on the part 
of social media?
    Mr. Bejar. Yes. My experience after sending that email and 
seeing what happened afterwards, is that they knew, there are 
things they could do about it, they chose not to do them, and 
we cannot trust them with our children. And it's time for 
Congress to act. The evidence, I believe, is overwhelming.
    Chair Blumenthal. I'm very hopeful that your testimony 
added to the lawsuit that's been brought by attorneys general--
State attorneys general, across the country--I'm a former State 
attorney general, I believe strongly in enforcement by them--
added to the interests that I think is evidenced by the turnout 
of our Subcommittee today, will enable us to get the Kids 
Online Safety Act across the finish line, along with measures 
like Senator Durbin's proposals and others that can finally 
break the straitjacket that Big Tech has imposed on us.
    Big Tech is the next Big Tobacco. I fought Big Tobacco in 
the 1990s. I sued Big Tobacco. I urged Congress to act. The 
same kind of addictive product that Big Tobacco pedaled to kids 
now is advanced to them and promoted and pitched by Big Tech. 
And we need to break the straitjacket they've imposed through 
their armies of lobbyists and lawyers. Thank you. Senator 
Hawley.
    Senator Hawley. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    Mr. Bejar, thank you again for being here. I just want to 
first establish a fact or two, just to make sure everybody 
understands.
    So on October the 5th, 2021, you composed an email, which 
is now, I think, in the record, to Mark Zuckerberg, Sheryl 
Sandberg, and a group of other executives at Meta. Am I right 
so far?
    Mr. Bejar. That's correct.
    Senator Hawley. In that memo, you disclosed to them that 
according to your own research, one in eight children--children 
now, had experienced unwanted sexual advances within the last 7 
days. Is that correct?
    Mr. Bejar. That's correct.
    Senator Hawley. And about one in three, I think it was 27 
percent, had experienced unwanted sexual advances outside of 
the 7-day window. So that is more than 7 days. Is that correct?
    Mr. Bejar. That is correct.
    Senator Hawley. Those numbers are astounding. I just want 
to let that sink in. One in eight, within 7 days. A third of 
children outside of that window. Mark Zuckerberg, did he reply 
to you?
    Mr. Bejar. He did not reply.
    Senator Hawley. Did he meet with you?
    Mr. Bejar. He did not meet with me.
    Senator Hawley. Sheryl Sandberg, did she meet with you?
    Mr. Bejar. She did not meet with me.
    Senator Hawley. So in other words, the people who had 
recruited you to come back to Facebook--Meta--whatever--it's 
hard to keep up, they ignored your findings. When you presented 
data to them, they didn't want to see. They turned a blind eye.
    Let me ask you about something else. This is from The Wall 
Street Journal's report earlier this year.
    This is June of this year. They found the following, I'm 
going to quote: ``Instagram helps connect and promote a vast 
network of accounts openly devoted to the commission and 
purchase of underage sex content. Pedophiles have long used the 
internet, but, unlike the forums and file transfer services 
that cater to people who have an interest in illicit content, 
Instagram doesn't merely host these activities, Instagram's 
algorithms promote them. Instagram connects pedophiles and 
guides them to content sellers via recommendation systems that 
excel at linking those who share these interests, The Journal 
and academic researchers found.''
    This is a stunning, stunning report, Mr. Bejar, that--that 
more than buttresses, bears out what you were telling, trying 
to tell the executives who ignored you. Just give us a sense, 
in your own view, why do you think this is happening?
    Why has Instagram become, in the words of The Wall Street 
Journal, ``a vast pedophile network''? Why are people like your 
daughter every time they get on Instagram, they're being 
bombarded with unwanted sexual advances, sexual content. Why is 
this happening?
    Mr. Bejar. My experience of that is that most of the 
resources, isn't close to all that they invest in this, go 
toward this very narrow definition of harm. And so I would 
encourage anybody here, when you're looking at this issue, if 
you find an account that seems to be a pedophile account, 
selling things, try and act on it. Try and raise it, see what 
the company does with that.
    But see what happens if you like it or follow it, what you 
start getting recommended. And of all of the things that get 
surfaced by the systems, how many of them are they acting on? 
It's a fraction of a percent.
    Senator Hawley. One of the things that you said changed 
from the time you left Facebook in 2015, I think it was, and 
came back in 2019, was that Facebook had shifted to an 
automated driven process of safety standards, safety 
inspection, monitoring for things like this, which they boast 
about. They say that their AI is great, it's doing great work. 
That doesn't appear, however, to be the actual fact. It appears 
that these harms are proliferating. Tell us about the shift 
toward automated safety monitoring and what that has meant in 
your experience.
    Mr. Bejar. I was not there for the shift, but what I can 
say is that algorithms are as good as their inputs. So if you 
don't allow a child to be, ``Oh, that is gross, it makes me 
uncomfortable,'' right--which is something that you can do for 
an ad today.
    You can take an ad and say that is sexually inappropriate. 
But there's no way for a child to do that when they get a 
message or other areas.
    How do these systems like even have a hope of addressing 
these issues? How can they as a company have a hope of 
addressing these issues if they're not willing to listen when a 
teen is trying to tell them that they're experiencing gross 
content, unwanted sexual advances? I mean, that's how you find 
predators. That's how you find the bad things.
    Senator Hawley. So what--what your research found, and what 
you elevated to leadership was, at least in part, that these 
automated systems were not catching the vast majority of this 
unwanted content out there. I mean, the sexual advances of this 
pedophile material, it simply doesn't begin to capture. Yet 
Facebook didn't shift more resources, didn't change their 
process.
    And here's the thing that really gets me, and I'll end with 
this, Mr. Chairman, I know there's others who want to question.
    I have been reading over and over and over again [holds up 
documents] this case filed by my home State, Missouri v. 
Biden--landmark First Amendment case--in which two Federal 
courts, a Federal district court and a Federal court of 
appeals, have found that Facebook, among others, actively 
coordinated with the present administration to censor First 
Amendment-protected speech.
    Not this garbage that is not protected by anything in our 
Constitution, but First Amendment-protected speech.
    Here's what gets me. What the courts found--this is in the 
record, this is factual findings--is that Facebook devoted all 
kinds of resources and people, actual human people to doing 
things like monitoring posts on COVID-19 vaccine efficacy. 
There's one example of a parent in my home State of Missouri 
who wanted to post something about a school board meeting. 
Facebook used human moderators to go and take down that post. 
That was important. That has to come down. We can't have them 
posting about school board meetings for heaven's sake.
    But the things that your daughter experienced, this [holds 
up documents]--this ring of pedophiles--rings, plural, that 
Facebook just can't find the time for. They just don't have the 
resources for it. That we just have to leave to, you know, let 
the market have its effect. Let AI do its job. We just don't 
have the resources for it.
    They had plenty of resources to censor First Amendment 
speech. No resources to protect our children. Absolutely 
unconscionable.
    Chair Blumenthal. Thanks, Senator Hawley. Senator Durbin.
    Chair Durbin. Thanks for being here, Mr. Bejar. You said 
earlier in your opening statement that when you worked for 
these companies, they were data driven. What do you mean by 
that?
    Mr. Bejar. Everything at--everything at Meta--there's goals 
based on numbers. There's fine-grained understanding of what is 
happening. People set their jobs on that. The next 6 months, 
I'm going to make this number go from this to that.
    Chair Durbin. But the ultimate answer is they were dollar 
driven, too. Correct?
    Mr. Bejar. What I can speak to very directly is that in my 
question to Adam was, you know, what percentage of teens should 
be experiencing unwanted sexual advances? If there's not a team 
that that's their goal, if they can't answer your questions 
about, well, how many teens are impacted by this? And if they 
cannot give you detailed data as to who's initiating those 
contacts, then it's just not a priority.
    Chair Durbin. But I--bottom line is this, they've made a 
decision that it's not a priority to them because of profit 
motive. Have they not? In terms of what it's going to cost them 
in their business model if they have to interrupt it and 
monitor the content.
    Mr. Bejar. I think that would be a wonderful question to 
ask Mark and Sheryl--well, Sheryl's no longer there--and Adam 
because they can speak to why they made these choices. I can 
only speak to the fact that they keep making these choices over 
and over again.
    Chair Durbin. Well, I would just back up what Senator 
Graham said. If this becomes expensive to them to continue this 
outrageous conduct, then they may pay closer attention. That's 
for sure. But you have suggested here, as well, that we need a 
survey of young people, as to their experience. You want to 
explain that?
    Mr. Bejar. Yes. The way that harm should be tracked on 
these products is, you go up to teens and ask them, did you 
receive an unwanted sexual advance in the last 7 days? And they 
are going to know, it doesn't matter what the message is.
    And then what you can do to help that teen is give them a 
chance to tell you. And the measures that I talk about are not 
even expensive to implement.
    Chair Durbin. We were also briefed by the DEA in terms of 
narcotics transactions and the use of platforms for that 
purpose. Did you ever look into that issue?
    Mr. Bejar. I did not directly, but what you can do is, if 
you look at the numbers that I provided the Committee, there is 
a category for that class of issues. And you should ask the 
company how much of that content, which teens experience as 
that, they take down.
    Chair Durbin. It's interesting to me that if one of my 
kids, when they were kids--our grandkids now--came home and 
said there was somebody lurking outside the playground at 
school that make the kids feel uncomfortable. We would know 
what to do and to move on it quickly. We'd find it 
unacceptable.
    And yet what we know for a reality is that there is danger 
lurking in the iPhones that they're opening up every single 
day. And yet we seem to feel that we are unable to respond to 
this. I hope we can change that.
    Senator Graham's suggestion about 230, I don't know. Do you 
have any thoughts on that? Section 230?
    Mr. Bejar. No, I'm not qualified to talk about 230. But I 
can say that these companies should be held accountable for the 
content they recommend.
    Chair Durbin. Well, I certainly agree with that. I think 
that is the bottom line. Thank you for your testimony.
    Mr. Bejar. Thank you.
    Chair Blumenthal. Thanks, Senator Durbin. Senator Graham.
    Senator Graham. Thank you. You're doing the country great 
service here.
    Did they contest your memo? Did anybody call you up and say 
you don't know what you're talking about, you're wrong?
    Mr. Bejar. No. I must have spoken to 20 or 30 people, 
including Adam Mosseri, saying, ``Do you have any feedback? 
Any--anything that's inaccurate in my data? '' And nobody did.
    Senator Graham. Okay. Is it--to sum up your testimony, is 
it fair to say that in its current form what you're describing 
is a dangerous product?
    Mr. Bejar. Correct.
    Senator Graham. And that millions of families are affected 
by this dangerous, dangerous product?
    Mr. Bejar. Correct.
    Senator Graham. As a father who had a 13-year-old affected 
by this product, did you feel helpless?
    Mr. Bejar. I did. And I was, if one that could help, it 
would've been me.
    Senator Graham. If you could have sued them, would you?
    Mr. Bejar. I apologize, could you repeat the question?
    Senator Graham. If you could sue on behalf of your 
daughter, would you?
    Mr. Bejar. I believe they just have to be held to account 
and being transparent about----
    Senator Graham. Okay. Well one way of doing that is to sue 
them. Do you know you can't sue them under the current law?
    Mr. Bejar. I did not know that.
    Senator Graham. Okay. All right. So they--your daughter 
felt harmed. Your testimony is, millions of people are in the 
same situation as your daughter. They know what they're doing 
and they keep doing it anyway. Is that all correct?
    Mr. Bejar. That is correct.
    Senator Graham. I can't think of a company in the world 
that can do this crap and not get sued except these people. 
Now, if you had to give sovereign immunity, basically what 
we've done here, to a group of people, this would be on the 
bottom of my list, not the top of my list. So I've just asked 
my office to find out how much money I've received from 
Facebook, Instagram, and other companies. I'm going to give it 
back.
    I think we all--ought to all boycott the giving because if 
Senator Hawley's right, I think you are, their leverage here is 
just power over the political system.
    So I'm calling on every Member of Congress today, don't 
take their money until they change. Don't accept what they're 
offering you until they change. Because the money you're 
receiving is coming from people that have created a dangerous 
product for children and they seem not to be willing to change.
    That'd be on the bottom of my list, now that I know what 
you've told me, of people I want to associate myself with. Have 
you ever heard them talk about being afraid of anything or 
anybody?
    Mr. Bejar. I have not.
    Senator Graham. That's amazing, isn't it? Companies this 
big, he's telling them what you're doing is hurting people, 
they're indifferent to it. But they feel like they're immune 
from action because they pretty much are.
    Bottom line, if we did create a system where parents like 
you could sue and hold them liable in court, do you think that 
may change your behavior?
    Mr. Bejar. That is not for me to say. I just want my 
daughter, our kids to have the tools that they need when 
they're experiencing these things.
    Senator Graham. Yes. Well what I will tell you is that I 
believe it would. We'll never know till we try. I think we 
should dedicate ourselves on this Committee--which has been a 
pleasure to serve on Senator Durbin, all of you have been great 
on this issue--to not just pass bills, but insist on change.
    The ultimate change comes, my colleagues, is when they can 
be held liable in a court of law. Until you open up the 
courthouse, nothing's going to change. The day you do, you'll 
be amazed how many good ideas they knew about they didn't tell 
us. So I'm going to dedicate what time I have left in this 
business to opening up the courtroom because I don't think 
nothing else will do. And until that day comes, I'm not going 
to take any of their money.
    If every Member of Congress says, ``Your money is not 
welcome till you change,'' that might be the first step toward 
change.
    Thank you for your bravery. Sorry, what happened to your 
daughter. We owe you and everybody in your situation better. 
Thank you.
    Chair Blumenthal. Thanks, Senator Graham. And that's why 
many of us have joined you in the call for abolishing Section 
230, including the Ranking Member and myself. Senator 
Klobuchar.
    Senator Klobuchar. Thank you very much, Senator Blumenthal. 
Thank you for those words, Senator Graham.
    I am a strong believer in, ``We can talk about this and 
have hearings and keep reminding people that we need to get 
things done, but until we change the law, these are no longer 
companies that started in a garage with two guys tinkering 
around with platforms or computers or in their college dorm 
room.'' Okay?
    This is real lives that are getting lost, and I really 
appreciate Mr. Bejar that you are willing to come forward and 
testify.
    I'm going to focus on one area that I don't think we've 
talked about enough, and that is the platform's inability and 
refusal to take down sites that are selling dangerous drugs.
    Recently the DEA found that one-third of drug cases had 
direct ties to social media. I was just in Minnesota with a 
mom, Bridget who lost her kid. And the kid literally ordered 
one pill--as we say, one pill kills--on the internet thinking 
it was something else. It was laced with fentanyl. As the mom 
said--as Bridget said, ``All of the hopes and dreams we as 
parents had were erased in the blink of an eye. And no mom 
should have to bury their kid.''
    That's why Senator Durbin and I and others on this 
Committee have been working with Senators Shaheen and Marshall, 
as well as Senator Grassley on this bill that has come through 
this Committee already, and needs to go to the floor along with 
another of other bills we've talked about--to require social 
media companies to report fentanyl and other dangerous drug 
sales on their platforms.
    In the words of our DEA Administrator, they have 
basically--the cartels, who don't really care if people die or 
not because no one knows it--in Mexico and China, have 
basically harnessed these platforms. Do social media companies 
have the correct incentives to identify and eliminate drug 
sales to kids?
    Mr. Bejar. Thank you for the question and the concern on 
all of those important things. Until there is disclosure of 
what kids experience as drug content, sexual content, until 
there is transparency about these things, I don't know what the 
incentive is. Which is why I think transparency is so 
essential.
    You know, as parents and grandparents, we see it, we 
understand it, we know how frequent it is. That's what the 
numbers they have to share. And if I would want one thing for 
everybody here to know, is that when we talk about any category 
that you care about, for example, drugs, and then when the 
company talks about that category, they're likely talking about 
a fraction of a percent of what we as a society are 
experiencing.
    Senator Klobuchar. Exactly. And we all know there's a lot 
of other things to do with fentanyl including at the border, 
but this would be a major game changer for the ability to take 
these cases on.
    Prosecutors have also reported an emerging trend where 
offenders collect photos of children that may fall just shy of 
the definition of child pornography and distribute them on 
websites with the intent to harass or abuse the child victims. 
And there was a major story on this in The Washington Post.
    Senator Cornyn and I have a Bill, the SHIELD Act, to fill 
in gaps in Federal law so that prosecutors can hold those who 
abuse kids in this way accountable. In your role as a person at 
Facebook who was responsible for efforts to keep users safe, 
can you talk about the deficiencies in current policies?
    Mr. Bejar. Thank you for the question. If you look at 
content that sexualizes minors, again, the question is, is that 
something that actually violates company policy and would be 
removed, and is that what the company is acting on?
    Or does it end up being something that, because it is 
content that the company does not act on, they actually end up 
recommending and distributing? Right?
    And as a parent, we see this. Right? If you were to look 
and open the app and look for it, you can find it, and then if 
you like it, you get recommended it. And these are all things 
that the company is, I believe, aware of, in terms of reach, 
and can do things about and have chosen not to do so.
    Senator Klobuchar. Okay, very good. I think--I was 
listening to Senator Graham, and he's right that there's one 
big thing we can do is to allow these cases to go forward in 
court. But I also think some of these things I'm discussing, 
actually makes it easier for people to proceed with these cases 
and create incentives.
    And one thing I'd add, I'll ask it on the record, is that 
Senator Coons, Senator Cassidy--and I think Senator 
Blumenthal's involved--have a bill to allow independent 
researchers to look at the algorithms that you know are 
designed in a way that manipulates these kids and can lead to 
their deaths, to require these digital platforms to give 
independent researchers access to data. And I just--yes or no, 
I figure you think this would be helpful?
    Mr. Bejar. Yes.
    Senator Klobuchar. Yes. Okay, very good. Just again, thank 
you. And we can, again, talk about this all we want and we'll 
remember you and your story. But until we get these things and 
are allowed floor time by both sides and can maybe put them 
together into one package, we're just not going to get the 
solutions that we need. Because just getting mad at these 
platforms haven't changed their conduct.
    Chair Blumenthal. Thanks. Thanks, Senator Klobuchar. 
Senator Kennedy.
    Senator Kennedy. Mr. Bejar, social media can make people 
less lonely. Can it not?
    Mr. Bejar. It can do that.
    Senator Kennedy. Social media can deliver insight. Can it 
not?
    Mr. Bejar. It can.
    Senator Kennedy. Social media when used properly can give 
voice to the timid. Can it not?
    Mr. Bejar. It can.
    Senator Kennedy. Social media can also spread hate. Can't 
it?
    Mr. Bejar. It can.
    Senator Kennedy. And isn't it a fact that much of social 
media, not all, but much of social media has become a cesspool 
of snark?
    Mr. Bejar. What I can speak to Senator, is, it happens all 
so often and it doesn't need to be that way.
    Senator Kennedy. Yes. But is it that way for much of, not 
all, but much of social media?
    Mr. Bejar. One of the numbers that I talk about is this 20 
percent of kids who witnessed bullying in the last 7 days. And 
this is content that does not get taken down. If people comment 
on it, it gets promoted.
    Senator Kennedy. Yes. Well, let me put it another way. I'm 
trying to sum this up for us. Isn't it a fact that social media 
has lowered the cost of being an a-hole?
    [Laughter.]
    Mr. Bejar. Yes.
    Senator Kennedy. And isn't it true that social media 
removes any geographical border to the harassment of others?
    Mr. Bejar. Yes.
    Senator Kennedy. And isn't it true that some forms of 
social media optimize for engagement?
    Mr. Bejar. Yes. I think using your term, they reward being 
an a-hole.
    Senator Kennedy. Yes. And isn't it true that some forms of 
social media use surveillance to identify our and our kids' hot 
buttons?
    Mr. Bejar. I cannot speak to that.
    Senator Kennedy. Isn't it true that some forms of social 
media use algorithms to show us and our kids stuff that pushes 
those hot buttons?
    Mr. Bejar. I will say this. Recently, my daughter had 
somebody go into one of her posts about cars and said, ``You 
know, you'd like to drive and you like cars because you saw a 
man doing it.'' And she said, ``I'm studying automotive 
restoration. I've been doing this for years. I know a lot about 
cars. I am more than qualified.'' And the person shot back, 
``No--women just belong in the passenger seat.''
    And to every point that you just made, I will say that when 
I asked her about that post, if she would delete it, because 
she knows reporting would do nothing, she said, ``I will not 
delete it because I'm worried that that will mean that less 
people will see my posts.''
    Senator Kennedy. All right. I'm not going to ask you this 
question. I'm going to make the statement because you're 
probably not familiar with Louisiana. But in my State, social 
media has impacted the news media, particularly print media. 
Thank God for our TV news and our radio news. But when it comes 
to our print media, we're--we in Louisiana--and that's print 
media and paper, paper and print media, which is on the 
internet--when it comes to print media, we in Louisiana are a 
news desert. We've only got about two real non-news print media 
journalists left who are fair and aren't opinion journalists. 
Most of our print media members are now sports journalists--
which is fine, I love sports. But there's a lot else going on 
in the world. Let me wrap up this way. What you do is what you 
believe. Isn't it?
    Mr. Bejar. It is.
    Senator Kennedy. And everything else is just cottage 
cheese. Isn't it?
    Mr. Bejar. It is.
    Senator Kennedy. Yes. I look forward to the day when 
Members of the United States Senate will come together and 
establish a new rule, not used every day or every week, or 
every month, or even every year. But that rule would say, when 
there is a consensus, and when you, as a Senator, can 
demonstrate that you have 60 votes to pass a bill, that you 
have the right to bring that bill to the floor of the United 
States Senate, no matter who doesn't want it. Thank you, Mr. 
Chairman.
    Chair Blumenthal. Thanks, Senator Kennedy. Senator Hirono.
    Senator Hirono. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. 
Bejar for testifying.
    I was curious about the fact that so many of the young 
people on these platforms are exposed to cyber bullying, and 
that can be anything. Your daughter experienced some of that 
because of some of the things that she posted online.
    So--but there is also an addictive quality to keeping these 
kids online. And for the platforms, keeping these kids online 
means money for them. What is it that--is there anything we can 
do to address the addictive aspect of what is happening to our 
young people where they continue to go on to these platforms 
and expose themselves to this kind of harmful content?
    Mr. Bejar. Thank you for the question. I think that it is 
essential to have good data about the impact that this product 
has. And it's not that difficult. You could take a teenager 
after half an hour and go, like, ``How are you doing? ''----
    Senator Hirono. Mm-hmm.
    Mr. Bejar [continuing]. ``Are you feeling better or worse? 
'' And then use that information.
    Senator Hirono. Let's say that we have this kind of data as 
to the harmful impact. What do you think we should do?
    Mr. Bejar. I think that products should adopt measures, and 
where appropriately compelled, to figure out a good way to help 
teens have a use of the product that serves them.
    Because I think what happens right now is it distresses 
them. And what I experienced as a parent, and I think every 
parent here has experienced, is that sense of urgency, of 
needing to be on there, and the impact that it has on their 
emotions.
    Senator Hirono. Do the young people understand the harmful 
impact themselves? Would it help if--part of your testimony is 
about how all of us should be--should understand what is 
happening. Would it help if the kids themselves also understand 
the harmful impacts? This is also an aspect of education, for 
example, of the young people. Would that help?
    Mr. Bejar. I think it helps to educate young people. I 
think what helps in my experience the most is changes to the 
product so that it's less harmful. And it's those changes and 
the refusal to do those changes is why I'm here.
    Senator Hirono. So right now, there's not much incentive 
for these platforms to change their product because they face 
no consequences for the content.
    So meanwhile, dozens of States, including the State of 
Hawaii, where I come from, have sued these companies, including 
Meta, alleging that they designed their products to harm users. 
And I think all or most of these cases have been consolidated 
in California. The defendants are saying that they are limited 
in their liability exposure because of Section 230.
    You're not a lawyer, but if these companies were exposed to 
legal liability and of these lawsuits--they are still pending, 
by the way. And if the companies are found liable and forced to 
pay money as a result of these lawsuits, do you think that 
would change their behavior as far as them paying attention to 
the harmful impact of the contents on their platforms?
    Mr. Bejar. I'm not a lawyer, and I'm not qualified to weigh 
in on that.
    Senator Hirono. No. But you did testify that it's all about 
money for these companies. That's why they keep doing what they 
do. And if they were exposed to--if they had to pay money as a 
result of their content, do you think that would change their 
behavior?
    Mr. Bejar. My hope is, and what I believe will change their 
behavior is, it's the moment that Mark Zuckerberg, when he 
declares earnings, he has to say, ``Last quarter we made $34 
billion''----
    Senator Hirono. Mm-hmm.
    Mr. Bejar [continuing]. And the next thing he has to say 
is, ``And in Instagram, this is the percentage of teens that 
experienced unwanted sexual advances.'' That number would go 
down very quickly.
    Senator Hirono. How would it go down?
    Mr. Bejar. Because it would be incentivized to work on it. 
Because right now, there are no goals to reduce unwanted sexual 
advances, as far as I am aware.
    Senator Hirono. Except that if they are--if there's no law 
that prevents them from having these kinds--this kind of 
content, or there are no court cases, they're not held 
responsible for content, then the fact that people know that 
they have an incentive, that they have exposed these kids, so 
what? Right?
    They--and this is why there's so much attention being paid 
to Section 230 and the limited liability, in fact, no 
liability. They are protected from content of--they do try, I 
suppose, and you say that they have a very limited definition 
of what is harmful content.
    But on the other hand, I'm all for doing more than we are 
currently doing. But, you know, one of the things that can also 
happen, I read a letter asking the FTC to investigate matters--
alleged practice of censoring advertisements for health 
products related to menstruation.
    And there Meta decided that this kind of advertisements was 
harmful. I hardly call that a very narrow definition of harm.
    So all these companies, left to their own devices, they get 
to choose what they deem to be harmful. And the examples that 
you cite, it's a very limited definition. But this, the example 
I cite, they've decided that women's health products, that is 
harmful and they're going to censor those kinds of products.
    So, you know, this is--it's a lot more complicated than at 
first, I guess, glimpse. But I know we're going to try and do 
something. So thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    Chair Blumenthal. Thanks, Senator Hirono. Senator 
Blackburn.
    Senator Blackburn. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you 
for your testimony and your frankness. I know that we 
appreciate it.
    And my State of Tennessee, we have attorneys here from our 
Attorney General's office today, and they are pushing to also 
get something done about the overreach of Facebook. And we're 
grateful that so many States have stepped up to hold Facebook 
and Meta to task. So we appreciate this.
    I want to return us to December 2021, and Chairman 
Blumenthal mentioned this. He and Ic, at the Senate Commerce 
Consumer Protection Subcommittee that we led, had Mr. Mosseri 
in front of us. And you were consulting for Instagram at that 
time. Correct?
    Mr. Bejar. So what is the date again?
    Senator Blackburn. December 2021.
    Mr. Bejar. I had left at that point.
    Senator Blackburn. You had left at that point. Okay. And a 
few months earlier, you sent him two emails that talked about 
youth harms on the platform. Correct?
    Mr. Bejar. Correct.
    Senator Blackburn. Okay. Now I'm going to quote you some 
things from his testimony. He said, and I quote, ``We care 
deeply about the teens on Instagram, which is in part why we 
research complex issues like bullying and social comparison and 
make changes.'' Do you agree with that characterization?
    Mr. Bejar. I agree with that they make research. I don't 
agree that they make changes.
    Senator Blackburn. Okay. So they have the info, they take 
no action. He also said, ``We don't allow people to bully or 
harass other people on Instagram, and have rules in place that 
prohibit this type of conduct. We've also built tools that 
prevent bullying from happening in the first place, and empower 
people to manage their accounts so they never have to see it,'' 
end quote. Do you agree with that?
    Mr. Bejar. I think it's profoundly misleading, because at a 
time at which the public statistic was a fraction of a percent. 
Right? One in five teens had watched it happening--like 10 
percent experienced it. And you have to bear in mind they're 
standing right there. And if this was a school, that would be 
completely unacceptable.
    Senator Blackburn. I agree. Let me give you one more.
    Talking about the executives, and I'm interested to see how 
they reacted to the information that came out in 2021 about 
their disregard for harms to minors.
    Do you think that Meta executives were motivated to do more 
or to address the problem? Or were they interested in covering 
up what was going on at Meta at the time?
    Mr. Bejar. I think you will need to ask them about their 
intentions. But I also deeply believe that actions speak louder 
than words.
    Senator Blackburn. Did any of the members of Meta's team, 
whether it was Zuckerberg, Sandberg, Cox--did any of them 
respond to your email in a way that suggested that they were 
going to take an action to correct the wrongs?
    Mr. Bejar. No. For 6 years, when I sent that kind of 
message, I would get a meeting within 24 hours to spend 
meaningful amount of time talking with them and what needed to 
be dealt with.
    And in this case, the lack of response, the meeting 
sometime later, and then the lack of action, again speaks about 
the fact that they, you know----
    Senator Blackburn. So they sloughed it off----
    Mr. Bejar. It was----
    Senator Blackburn [continuing]. Money was more important 
than protecting children?
    Mr. Bejar. I think you should ask them that question.
    Senator Blackburn. Okay. I would be interested to know who 
took responsibility for making policy determinations about 
youth safety? And one conversation you had with my staff, you 
suggested that Mark Zuckerberg had a hand in such decisions 
during your first stint at the company. But that when you 
returned, he would tell employees not to raise youth safety 
issues to him. Is that accurate?
    Mr. Bejar. In my first stint, he would be--he, Chris Cox, 
and Sheryl, would be who you raise these issues to, and they 
would engage very proactively. Having done that for 6 years, 
that's why I felt I was probably one of the most qualified 
people in the world to bring it to their attention.
    I was not aware when I brought--sent my email that it was 
hard to talk to Mark about this, but I could say that my 
experience of how the entire company was behaving when it came 
to the harms that teens were experiencing, was a culture issue 
that was grinding on that decision, which in my experience, 
prioritizing prevalence over harm, is something that Mark sets 
direction for that whole executive team. And that's why I 
realized it was necessary to appeal directly to them.
    Senator Blackburn. So they were aware.
    Mr. Bejar. Correct.
    Senator Blackburn. They knew that harms were taking place.
    Mr. Bejar. Correct.
    Senator Blackburn. They had the research that pointed this 
out--their own research.
    Mr. Bejar. Correct.
    Senator Blackburn. And they made a conscious decision to do 
nothing about it.
    Mr. Bejar. Correct.
    Senator Blackburn. Did they ever talk about profits as 
opposed to enacting these protections?
    Mr. Bejar. Not in my presence.
    Senator Blackburn. Not in your presence. Okay.
    So other than Mark Zuckerberg, who would've claimed 
responsibility for dealing with youth safety and youth harms?
    Mr. Bejar. It would have----
    Senator Blackburn. Anyone?
    Mr. Bejar [continuing]. Adam Mosseri for Instagram.
    Senator Blackburn. So, Adam. Okay. Thank you for that. My 
time's expired. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    Chair Blumenthal. Thanks, Senator Blackburn. Senator Welch.
    Senator Welch. Thank you very much. I just want to start by 
acknowledging my gratitude to my colleagues on this Committee 
for the work that you have been doing on a bipartisan basis. 
Senator Blackburn and I began working together when we were 
both in the House together and introduced, I think, the first 
Privacy bill.
    So I haven't been with you in this effort, but I was with 
Senator Blackburn. And I can't elaborate on the excellent 
opening statements Senator Blumenthal and Senator Hawley, that 
you made, and I guess in our phrase, I'd like to associate 
myself with your remarks.
    But I do want to, on my own behalf, express my shock at 
what's happening to our kids and how it's all because there's a 
lot of money to be made. And your questions Senator Blackburn 
revealing just the disregard for the mental health of our kids 
is--is truly shocking. So I'm all in with you on your efforts 
here.
    I'm also delighted that in Vermont, our attorney general 
has joined the lawsuit. And also I want to thank you for your 
stepping forward and providing such clarity, and also embedded 
in the concern that you have, not just for your daughter, but 
for all of our kids.
    A couple of issues that have come up from letters that I've 
received and comments--and I know you're getting the same 
questions as well is from--and I want to make sure we can do 
this legislation that doesn't do any harm. And I've been 
receiving a number of letters from folks in the LGBT community 
who are concerned that some of this legislation included the 
KOSA Act would compromise their ability to get together online 
and be mutually supportive. And I support that.
    So is it, I just want you to talk a little bit about how, 
if we proceed with the legislation, which I hope we do, we're 
not in any way going to interfere with the capacity of kids who 
legitimately are getting together, mutually supporting, none of 
the exploitive stuff. Can we accomplish that?
    Mr. Bejar. Thank you for the question. I cannot speak to 
the legislation. I think--I trust that you are extraordinarily 
qualified for that part. I think that my job here is to help 
bring light to the harms----
    Senator Welch. Right.
    Mr. Bejar [continuing]. That these teams are experiencing. 
And the fact that the way the company talks about them, in my 
experience, is misleading.
    Senator Welch. Okay. And that's based on all your years 
really at the forefront of Facebook.
    Mr. Bejar. Correct. And then the other thing I really would 
want you to know, and for any kid that, again, ends up having 
these awful experiences, it does not need to be this way. 
Right? There ought--Instagram is standing right next to them as 
these things are happening, and they should be able, and I know 
because I built these kinds of things for 6 years, they should 
be able to turn and say, ``Can you please help me with this? 
''----
    Senator Welch. Right.
    Mr. Bejar [continuing]. And then get help with whatever's 
happening for them. And today, that is not the case.
    Senator Welch. So it's the exploitative content that's in 
the algorithms that you're focusing on, and I think all of us 
are.
    Mr. Bejar. I think you--no, it's--it's actually--it's when 
somebody says in front--you're talking at school and you're in 
the hallway and somebody comes to you and says, ``I'm going to 
make sure that you don't get invited to any party ever again.'' 
Right? The only people around you hear that. And if that 
happens online, that is a post that implies a person--doesn't 
name them----
    Senator Welch. Right.
    Mr. Bejar [continuing]. Never gets removed, is incredibly 
distressing to the teen. And the kind of stuff I am talking 
about, because I deeply care about every child we can talk 
about in every context, is that, that child who gets like left 
out, insulted because of the reasons that Chairman Blumenthal 
outlined, that child should be able to get help independent of 
what the content is. And I believe that's important for all 
children, no matter what their gender or----
    Senator Welch. Right. No, I share that. By the way, another 
question that's come up is about encryption. And there's real 
privacy benefits to maintaining an encryption. So I would hope 
that any legislation that we have wouldn't compromise the 
privacy rights of individuals who are on the internet.
    Mr. Bejar. I deeply believe in privacy and in everything 
that I'm talking about. Right? If a child gets a direct 
message, right, that makes them uncomfortable, hurts them, it 
doesn't matter what the content is, it ought to be, ``My house, 
my rules.''
    Senator Welch. Right.
    Mr. Bejar. It only matters that that child feels 
uncomfortable, and is able to say, which is what I asked Adam, 
can we please add a button when a child receives this message 
that says like, ``Please help me.'' ``What's going on? '' 
``Somebody's being like, really mean to me.''
    Senator Welch. Right.
    Mr. Bejar. And it doesn't matter what the content is, that 
child deserves help.
    And if somebody's initiating those messages, sending those, 
going into those kids' houses and telling them these things, 
then step number one----
    Senator Welch. Yes.
    Mr. Bejar [continuing]. They should know that's not 
appropriate. And if they keep doing it, then other things can 
be brought to bear.
    Senator Welch. Thank you. So kids first.
    Mr. Bejar. Absolutely.
    Senator Welch. Thank you. I yield back.
    Chair Blumenthal. Thanks, Senator Welch. Senator Cornyn.
    Senator Cornyn. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Bejar for being 
here and your courage and your testimony.
    You know, I think we've met the enemy, and the enemy is us. 
We actually have six bills that Senator Durbin referred to that 
were voted out of the Judiciary Committee. But in the Senate, 
the only person who can actually schedule those bills for vote 
is the Majority Leader, Senator Schumer.
    And so I would suggest that we focus our attention on 
trying to get Senator Schumer to schedule a vote on those six 
pieces of legislation. There's--that would be a good start. But 
we can talk about it, but without that happening, nothing is 
going to happen in the Senate.
    So one wise person said one time, when trying to figure out 
a complex topic like this, follow the money.
    You keep--you've mentioned a number of times that data--do 
social media applications like Instagram and Facebook collect 
huge volumes of data about the users?
    Mr. Bejar. They do.
    Senator Cornyn. And that data is then used mainly for 
advertising products. For example, it's amazing to me when I go 
to a website and I look at something, let's say a piece of 
hunting gear, next thing I know on my Instagram, an 
advertisement from that same company shows up.
    And the way that that happens is that Instagram, Facebook, 
X or formerly known as Twitter, sells that data to companies 
who then use that information to promote their products. Isn't 
that correct?
    Mr. Bejar. I'm not an expert in that domain.
    Senator Cornyn. Well, that's what--that's how they make 
money. Right?
    Mr. Bejar. They make money through advertising.
    Senator Cornyn. Yes. Well, I was shocked to read an article 
here in the MIT Technology Review, which talks about, it's 
shockingly easy to buy sensitive data about U.S. military 
personnel.
    Duke University did a study at the request of West Point 
and others, and determined for as little as 12 cents per record 
that data brokers would sell sensitive information on U.S. 
military members and veterans. Does that--would that surprise 
you?
    Mr. Bejar. Again, this is not an area where I have any 
expertise. I mean, I have expertise from the perspective of 
being a security professional and ensuring that the systems do 
what they're set to do. But I don't have expertise on how the 
data gets brokered.
    Senator Cornyn. Well, I think it's pretty much common 
knowledge that that's the case--that this data accumulated by 
social media companies is then sold. And that's the reason why 
when you go on Instagram or Facebook, you don't actually have 
to pay a subscription or a fee.
    And they've talked about if they couldn't recover that 
revenue from selling that data about me, Chairman Blumenthal, 
the Ranking Member Hawley and others, or your daughter, then 
they would have to charge a fee in order to make this 
economical. But they don't do that because they can sell your 
data.
    And as shocking as what you have discovered, and you shared 
with us today about this one social media company, the truth is 
this is not unique to Instagram or Facebook. Correct?
    Mr. Bejar. Correct. It's the entire social media sector 
that serves teens.
    Senator Cornyn. And here in the Congress, we've talked a 
lot about our concern about China's increasing belligerency, 
and militancy, and buildup of its, not only its economy, but 
its military, and threatening peace in Asia and elsewhere.
    But we're also--have talked a lot about apps like TikTok, 
for example, that are Chinese applications that then do much as 
Instagram does and vacuum up all this data, addict our children 
by using the algorithms or codes to figure out what to 
recommend to them.
    And again, this is all about the data, and all about the 
money.
    And of course, Senator Durbin mentioned the use of social 
media applications when it comes to selling drugs. You know, 
fentanyl, synthetic opioid is a single leading cause of death 
for 18- to 45-year-olds in America today. And much of it is 
transacted, those sales and promotions through the use of 
social media. And then there's other scary things like 
deepfakes. Do you know what a deepfake is?
    Mr. Bejar. I do.
    Senator Cornyn. What is it?
    Mr. Bejar. It is when you use technology to create an image 
that appears to be a person, but it's not an actual video or a 
photograph of that person.
    Senator Cornyn. And I've read in the last couple of days 
that deepfakes are now being used to basically portray young 
girls for sexual--sexual gratification using these deepfakes--
fake, false images due to this incredible technology. Which, as 
Senator Kennedy pointed out, could be used for a lot of good, 
but it could be also used for ill, as well.
    I know our time is short here today. I just want to thank 
you for answering some of these questions. We have a lot of 
work to do here in the Senate and in the Congress, and as 
parents and grandparents and to try to protect our children. 
I'm just--thank goodness my daughters are adults now, and they 
don't live in the--you know, they aren't of an age of Senator 
Hawley's kids or others'. But the first thing we need to do, 
Mr. Chairman, is ask the one person who can actually schedule a 
floor vote on some of the bills that passed unanimously out of 
the Senate Judiciary Committee to schedule a vote. We could do 
that next week, but he's got to make it happen. Thank you.
    Chair Blumenthal. Thanks, Senator Cornyn. I can't speak for 
Senator Schumer, but I know he is vitally interested in reform 
in this area, and I'm sure that he will make that interest real 
on the floor of the Senate at the right time. Senator Butler.
    Senator Butler. Thank you, Chair Blumenthal and Ranking 
Member Hawley. As a mom, this is a topic that I could not not 
show up to engage in.
    And I want to--appreciate your leadership, Mr. Bejar, for 
fighting for and leading on behalf of not just my daughter, but 
America's children--and I know not just your own.
    I appreciate very much also your comments to my colleague 
here, Senator Welch. Specifically, when you're talking about 
taking an all children approach. I want to direct my comments 
to really engage in a space that where maybe all children--the 
all children approach hasn't necessarily been taken. And I'd 
love to get your thoughts on some gaps that we could try to 
fill.
    Now you know and we know that the internet can be a hateful 
place. We've talked about that today.
    I understand that among your research in Meta's user 
experience, you looked into instances of identity-based 
hostilities on the platform, and you found that over a quarter 
of Instagram users under the age of 16 said they witnessed 
hostility against someone based on their race, religion, or 
identity, within the last week.
    One study published in the Journal of American Academy of 
Children and Adolescent Psychiatry looked at the issue of 
online racial discrimination between March and November of 
2020. It found that Black youth experienced increases on online 
racial discrimination that their white counterparts did not. 
And those instances of discrimination predicted worsened same 
day and next day, mental health amongst Black youth.
    Mr. Bejar, can you talk with us a little bit about what 
more you think the company should be doing to protect against 
these kinds of racial and ethnic harassments and hostility 
online?
    Mr. Bejar. Sorry. The fact that a child today, white, 
Black, any identity, right, gets called out in front of the 
entire shared audience--again, the difference between when this 
happens in a school and when it happens online. Right? Go home, 
ask him, ask your child, what would you do? What can you do?
    And there's no way for that child to say, ``This is what's 
happening to me: Somebody's being really mean to me.'' And I 
use that language because 10 years ago, Facebook knew this. We 
knew that in order to help a child dealing with an issue and 
help them, you have to hear the words that they use.
    A 13-year-old does not like to report things because 
they're worried they're going to get in trouble and get other 
people in trouble. So you tell them, ``Would you like some 
help? '' And if you look at the work that I submitted from 10 
years ago, you should be able to say, you know, ``This is like 
awful for me because of my identity''--any form of that.
    And the company should be able to take that into account to 
help that child be protected, and then get them resources. And 
then also make sure that that is not acceptable behavior in the 
community.
    Because the most tragic thing about that 20 percent number 
witnessing these kinds of attacks, is that the lack of action 
on part of the company and the very narrow definition of the 
content that they would take down, means that they're 
normalizing the behavior----
    Senator Butler. Yes.
    Mr. Bejar [continuing]. Children watch and children learn 
from the way other children are behaving.
    Senator Butler. And just to follow up a little bit, what 
would it look like to create a good experience? Is it the--just 
the simple, the ability to sort of exercise some agency and the 
button that you're asking--that you're making reference to?
    Mr. Bejar. It's a process. So if it's on direct messages, 
you have a button, you record that somebody initiated that 
message. And one of the questions for the platforms is, you 
know, how many, like, hateful or harassing messages should 
somebody be able to send before you tap them on the shoulder 
and you tell them that it's not appropriate behavior. Right?
    So it creates information that you can then act on----
    Senator Butler. Right.
    Mr. Bejar [continuing]. If somebody keeps doing it, then 
you know that they're up to no good, and then you can take 
further measures. And so without this data, any systems 
cannot--do not have a hope of making a safer environment for 
youth.
    Senator Butler. And what do you think has been the barrier 
for companies? We're talking about the companies that you have 
the most experience with. What do you think is the barrier to 
change, and what do you think could help to create that--to 
overcome that barrier?
    Mr. Bejar. I think they're just not incentivized to make 
this change. That's why nothing has changed. It's been 2 years. 
And, you know, our kids do not have that button in their direct 
messaging where the content doesn't matter, to say, ``This 
makes me uncomfortable.'' But you can say it about an ad, for 
example. Right? You can go into an ad and say, ``Oh, that's 
sexually inappropriate.'' Right? Or, ``It's not for me.''
    The thing about this is, until the information is 
transparent, and I would strongly encourage that that includes 
identity-based youth, because if it turns out that the overall 
number is 10 percent, but that 90 percent, 80 percent of youth 
that experience these things is because of an identity issue, 
the data is there to be had if the company makes it a priority 
and collects it. And that is at the heart of why I am here 
today.
    Senator Butler. Thank you so much, Mr. Bejar, again, for 
your leadership and advocacy on behalf of America's children. 
Mr. Chair.
    Chair Blumenthal. Thanks, Senator Butler.
    A number of our colleagues may be joining us, returning in 
the next few minutes. But why don't we begin a second round of 
questions now. Speaking of which, Senator Coons is arriving, 
and I can give you a couple of minutes to get comfortable, or 
you can begin right now.
    [Voice heard off microphone.]
    Chair Blumenthal. Senator Coons.
    Senator Coons. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Ranking 
Member, for convening this important and timely hearing. And 
Mr. Bejar Arturo, thank you so much for taking of your own 
personal experience as the senior engineer responsible for the 
Well-being section within this unbelievable platform.
    Quick survey suggests that something like two-thirds of all 
American teens are currently on Meta's platforms, in particular 
Instagram.
    I am very concerned about the likely impact on our children 
and our future. And I wanted to make sure that I had a chance 
to question you for just a few moments about a possible path 
forward.
    As you testified to this Committee today, your own research 
was hidden, was ignored, was marginalized by the very team that 
had recruited you to return to a leadership role at Meta.
    Your testimony highlights the dangerous lack of 
transparency at social media companies, the dangerous 
consequences of this ongoing global experiment with our 
children, and documents ways in which they are on the receiving 
end of both images that make them feel worse about themselves, 
and unwanted sexual advances.
    Our own U.S. Surgeon General has issued a clarion call for 
Congress to act, to recognize we are experiencing a crisis in 
mental health, in particular amongst our children, and to find 
ways to restrain these platforms and their impact.
    A bipartisan bill--I suspect Senator Klobuchar, or Senator 
Blumenthal may have referred to before--called the Platform 
Accountability and Transparency Act, that's co-sponsored by 
Senator Cornyn, and Senator Cassidy, and Senator Graham, would 
make critical advances in transparency and require platforms to 
disclose some of the public safety information that they 
currently hide.
    Can you give just two or three examples of the kinds of 
data and the kinds of insights into algorithms and how they 
work, that would be critical for our public to know, and that 
companies like Meta refuse to report?
    And do you expect that companies will ever voluntarily 
fully disclose what it is about their algorithms that make 
these platforms addictive or even dangerous for our children?
    Mr. Bejar. Apologies. Thank you for the question. I think 
that for as long as these companies get to make up their own 
definitions of what is harmful, of what is, for example, 
addiction--I looked into that issue when I was in the company 
asking around about the understanding of it.
    And what I found is that it was an internal term called 
problematic usage. And the definition of that was so narrow, 
right, that--does it really capture what we as parents all see?
    And so I think without transparency of the harms that teens 
are experiencing by their own word, right, without instruments 
that help us understand the role that social media plays in 
their lives, and without ensuring that, for example, there's 
something that when they need help, actually helps them, this 
was something that we proposed saying, let's measure our help 
by whether it helped--and that was not adopted.
    And so I think that without these things, I don't think 
anything is going to change, and that's why I'm here today.
    Senator Coons. Could you explain for us how empowering 
independent researchers would provide a much more balanced 
understanding of how safe or dangerous social media platforms 
really are, and say something about what kinds of safety 
research could be done in order to facilitate a better mental 
health and better safety outcomes for our teenagers?
    Mr. Bejar. I can speak well to that because that's what I 
did and my team did for 6 years. Right?
    Ten years ago, we brought in experts from different 
universities in the United States, including Yale, who 
understood that, for example, a 13-year-old is more liable to 
take risks, right, because of where they are developmentally, 
and they knew that it was important that the most important 
thing that you can do for a child that's having a distressing 
experience, is to make sure that they feel supported at that 
moment.
    Us as product engineers and designers are not qualified to 
give teens tools, and that's why independent research and the 
data that enables that is absolutely necessary to help our 
understanding of what people are experiencing online.
    Senator Coons. Thank you. My colleague, Senator Hawley said 
earlier that Instagram's algorithm doesn't just promote, but 
accelerates the connections between pedophiles and our kids. 
For anyone who is a caring and concerned parent, for anyone who 
cares about our community, that should be a chilling sentence.
    And the fact that you dedicated years to conducting 
research on safety, and did everything you could to get it to 
the attention of the leadership of the company, and are only 
here before us as a last gasp attempt, should motivate all of 
us to advance legislation that will unlink what I think is a 
corrosive, harmful, malign connection between algorithms, and 
self-harm, and assaults on our children. Thank you for your 
testimony today.
    Chair Blumenthal. Thanks, Senator Coons.
    We're going to have a second round of questions limited in 
length I want to assure you, but thank you for your patience 
and your perseverance here today.
    Let me just begin by saying that the lawsuit filed by the 
Commonwealth of Massachusetts yesterday, which is one of nine 
individual lawsuits filed around the country by States, and it 
is complimentary to the Federal lawsuit filed by 33 States in 
District Court, Connecticut, joined that lawsuit--I'm going to 
ask that the complaint be made part of the record, without 
objection--says that 90 percent of young people in the United 
States--90 percent of young people use Instagram.
    [The information appears as a submission for the record.]
    Chair Blumenthal. So we're talking about millions of young 
people. Are we not?
    Mr. Bejar. Yes, we are.
    Chair Blumenthal. And it cites Mark Zuckerberg saying in 
October 2021, in response to Frances Haugen's whistleblower 
testimony before our Committee, quote, ``At the heart of these 
accusations, is this idea that we prioritize profit over safety 
and well-being. That's just not true.'' He said further, ``It 
is very important to me that everything we build is safe and 
good for kids,'' end quote.
    Taking your admonition that actions speak louder than 
words, his actions certainly demonstrate the falsehood of those 
claims. Do they not?
    Mr. Bejar. They do. And if I have a moment, there's 
something from that same note that I would like to bring to the 
Committee's attention.
    Chair Blumenthal. Sure.
    Mr. Bejar [holds up document]. In the same note, Mark 
Zuckerberg wrote, ``But when it comes to young people's health 
or well-being, every negative experience matters. It is 
incredibly sad to think of a young person in a moment of 
distress who instead of being comforted, has their experience 
made worse.'' And I believe that is what Instagram does today.
    Chair Blumenthal. The reference was made earlier to the 
policies of Facebook and social media in general being data 
driven. In fact, they are dollar driven. Correct?
    Mr. Bejar. My experiences of extensive data driven 
culture----
    Chair Blumenthal. Or in this case Facebook and Meta 
doctored the data to drive the dollars.
    Mr. Bejar. In my experience, what happened is this data 
that should be public, right, they shouldn't need to be here to 
talk about it, should be public about harm.
    Chair Blumenthal. You know, I was struck in the memo that 
you wrote to Adam Mosseri dated October 14th, it's now part of 
the record, you made the point, first of all--and I'm quoting, 
``Everyone in the industry has the same problems right now.''
    Mr. Bejar. Correct.
    Chair Blumenthal. You made that point to Mr. Mosseri and, 
in effect, urged Meta to be a leader--Instagram and Facebook 
could be a leader. And you said, quote, ``There is a great 
product opportunity in figuring out the features that make a 
community feel safe and supportive,'' end quote. ``A great 
product opportunity''--in effect, you were inviting them to 
design a better product that consumers would prefer because it 
was safer. Correct?
    Mr. Bejar. Correct.
    Chair Blumenthal. And the history of capitalism--I don't 
want to be too philosophical here, is that consumers go to 
products that are more efficient, more effective, but also 
safer. As in safer cars, safer ovens, safer washing machines, 
safer everything. And you were appealing to the better 
instincts of Mosseri and Zuckerberg and the whole team. 
Correct?
    Mr. Bejar. That is correct. I mean, Instagram is a product. 
Right? Like ice cream, or a toy, or a car.
    I ask you, right, how many kids need to get sick from a 
batch of ice cream, or be hurt by a car, before there's all 
manners of investigations? And there was an opportunity because 
they're standing right next to the teen.
    They're the company that's delivering the unwanted sexual 
advance. They're the company that's delivering the content that 
is upsetting to them, and they're standing right there. And 
they should be able--like there's the opportunity for them to 
be told, ``Hey, there's something really awful happening here. 
Will you help me? '' And be like, ``Yes I can.'' Right? And 
then use that to make the community be one that's safer.
    Chair Blumenthal. Right. And the Kids Online Safety Act is 
also about the product. It's about product design.
    If you have consumers, give them some choices about what 
they want to see and hear, so as to be able to disconnect the 
algorithms that drive something people don't want to see or 
hear. It's not censorship, it's not content blocking. Do you 
favor that approach to protecting young people and others on 
the internet?
    Mr. Bejar. Completely. In a world where, as in the third 
paragraph on my email to Mark, and in my experience from 10 
years earlier--that's 5 years of looking at this--where 90 
percent of the content that teens experience as harassment, 
right, it might not be discernible for policies. The only way 
to address this is through the kind of measures that you're 
describing. It's a product. It needs to be different. It has to 
change.
    Chair Blumenthal. And the Kids Online Safety Act is also 
about holding social media and Big Tech accountable when they 
harm people. Right now, as you've heard, they feel no sense of 
accountability in terms that really affect their bottom line, 
when Mark Zuckerberg gives his quarterly report or his 
discussion to analysts. Would you favor that kind of 
accountability so that they are held responsible?
    Mr. Bejar. Absolutely. I was, again, within the Well-Being 
Team, which I want to take a moment to say that in my 
experience, the Integrity and Well-being professionals, which 
are working on these issues firsthand, are incredibly good 
people with wonderful ideas and management couldn't be letting 
them down more. But----
    Chair Blumenthal. And----
    Mr. Bejar. Sorry.
    Chair Blumenthal. Go ahead, sorry.
    Mr. Bejar. All I was going to say, during that time, one of 
the issues that it's in one of the materials, is we talk about 
a kind of content that we know is bad for body image issues. It 
has a name, the inspiration, it's being recommended. They know 
it is being recommended. They know teens are spending a 
meaningful time looking at it, and they were unwilling as a 
product to address that. So without being to held to account 
for what they're recommending, I can't imagine that ever 
changing.
    Chair Blumenthal. And another part of our Kids Online 
Safety Act provides for more transparency about the algorithm 
so that there can be more public knowledge and also expert 
knowledge. Would you favor that approach?
    Mr. Bejar. Yes. I believe transparency is essential. And I 
will say that algorithms are as good as their inputs and can be 
measured by their outputs. So you can take an algorithm and if 
the algorithm doesn't know that a kid experiences something as 
obscene, then why won't it recommend it? And if you look at 
what it's recommending, if it's recommending obscene things 
that should be held to account, then the only way there is with 
transparency about these aspects.
    Chair Blumenthal. And before I go to Senator Hawley for his 
second round of questions, you know, you mentioned that the 
people who worked on your team, the people who work in these 
companies--to quote you, are generally good people who want to 
do the right thing.
    And I noticed in your memo to Mr. Mosseri, you said, and 
I'm quoting, ``A point, which might be good for you to know, 
which I did not put in the document reviewed by the team, is 
that many employees I've spoken to who are doing this work and 
are of different levels, are distraught, are distraught about 
how the last few weeks have unfolded. These people who love FB/
IG''--Facebook, Instagram, I assume--``and are heart/mission-
driven to the work.''
    They were distraught by the public exhibition of Facebook's 
knowing that it was profiting by toxic content driven at kids 
and the company, in effect, concealing and hiding the truth, 
rejecting recommendation for improvement, and rolling back 
safety measures. Correct?
    Mr. Bejar. Correct. They were distraught. They were afraid 
that because the company was externally disavowing, like, body 
image issues, while at the same time there were studies and 
data that were saying otherwise, features getting proposed that 
were saying otherwise.
    They were afraid that the work would be stopped, that they 
wouldn't get the support they needed, or they wouldn't be able 
to build what they needed to build. And I say that the amount 
of investment that this company ought to do for those people, 
should be commensurate to that table of harms that you now 
have.
    Chair Blumenthal. Thank you. Senator Hawley.
    Senator Hawley. Thank you, again, Mr. Chairman.
    Mr. Bejar, thank you for being here and thank you, you have 
been extraordinarily patient, but also incredibly forthcoming 
in your responses. And it's just been tremendously helpful. So 
thank you so much.
    I just want to come back to something that you said over 
and over, because you've been asked about it over and over to 
quote you in response to an earlier question. You said that, 
``Changes to the product''-- and you were just explaining that 
Instagram is a product like ice cream or opioids maybe--
``Changes to the product would be most helpful, but there is no 
incentive.''
    And by no incentive, I mean, that really just means there's 
no money in it for the company. Right? I mean, isn't that what 
it gets down to at the bottom? If they could make money on it, 
wouldn't they do it?
    Mr. Bejar. You're going to have to ask them. I really am, 
I'm very excited for the day that Mark or Adam are sitting 
here.
    Senator Hawley. Me too.
    Mr. Bejar. And then you can ask them, ``So why did you not 
invest? '' Because one of the things that is in each 
recommendation you see there, ``Do you understand what data's 
causing these things? '' Like, here's the button that you can 
build in the systems.
    Those are not a matter of significant investment. It would 
not cost them as much. It is a matter of how much they 
prioritize the work, and whether they're willing to set their 
goals based on what teens are experiencing.
    Senator Hawley. I think that's very well said. And, you 
know, I would just add this, you commented earlier that it 
would be great to hear Mark Zuckerberg say, you know, ``We made 
$34 billion this quarter.'' That was a hypothetical you threw 
out. And then here also have to report, ``Here's the amount of 
harm that teenagers suffered.''
    I'd tell you what else I'd love to hear him say: ``We made 
$34 billion this quarter, and we have $34 billion in jury 
judgments pending against us.'' That would get their attention.
    And I just have to say, at the end of the day, if you want 
to incentivize changes to these companies, you have got to 
allow people to sue them. You've got to open up the courtroom 
doors.
    The FTC fined Facebook, what was it? A billion dollars or 
something a couple of years ago. It made no discernible 
difference to their business practices. None. They changed 
nothing. They don't care.
    But I tell you what they fear, they fear parents going into 
court and holding them accountable. That's the hammer. That's 
what happened with Big Tobacco. That's what happened with 
opioids. That's the hammer. And that's what we have got to do.
    And so I'll just say this, you know, we talked about the 
bills that were passed by this Committee. One of them is 
Senator Durbin's bill along with me, it's our bill together on 
child sexual exploitation, abuse material, CSAM exploitative 
material. And for my money, the best part about that bill is it 
contains a private right of action.
    So I'll just say this, it's November, I think the 7th 
today, is that right? I'll make you a pledge. We're going to 
vote before the end of the year.
    Before the end of this calendar year, I will go to the 
floor of the United States Senate and I will demand a vote on 
the bills that we have passed in this Committee.
    And we'll just find out. We're going to put people on 
record because I'm tired of waiting.
    I've waited 4 years. Many folks on this Committee have 
waited far longer. So we're going to vote. Any Senator can go 
to the floor and call up a piece of legislation and ask for a 
vote on it. And I'm going to do it. Before the end of this 
year, I'm going to do it.
    So we're going to find out. We have all this talk about, 
oh, we love it, we need to do stuff. Okay, fine, let's do 
something.
    And the other thing I'll just say is on the money. The 
money that is flowing into this Capitol from Big Tech is 
obscene. It's totally obscene. And if we really wanted to 
change something, we'd get the corporate money out of politics. 
We would stop these mega corporations from making political 
contributions. That would change things.
    But either way, we're going to vote before the end of 2023, 
and we'll just put people on record and we'll see where we go 
from there.
    Mr. Bejar, thank you. I hope your testimony today will 
really motivate people. I know it will motivate parents. I 
think every parent listening to this will say, ``You know what, 
that's been my experience, too.''
    And I think to have someone who is an engineer as you are, 
has your level of expertise, and been inside the company, I 
think so often parents feel isolated and they feel like, 
``Maybe I just don't understand this technology. Maybe I'm the 
only one.'' And I just say, listening to you today, I think 
parents are going to say, ``I'm not the only one. My kid is not 
the only one.'' Yes, go ahead.
    Mr. Bejar. If I may say something about that. Parents know 
they see this every day. And the other thing that it's been my 
experience in all my years doing this, is that parents know how 
to parent.
    And sometimes when I've had a parent of a child that's been 
groomed and come and talk to me about it, about their 
experience, they're like, ``Well, I don't understand this 
technology.'' The best way I've experienced of people to think 
about these things, is just take social media out of the 
conversation.
    Like, as a parent of a young kid, you know who your kids 
are spending time with. You keep an eye out on that. Right? 
This--you get a sense of that. You want to make it very safe 
for your kid to come up to you and say, ``Hey dad, like there's 
this thing that's happening.'' That's what happened with me at 
home. And you want to make it safe for a kid to bring up an 
issue to you.
    And then when you see that these things are happening on 
these devices, right, if these things were happening at a 
school and you knew that like one in five kids were witnessing 
or one in 10 were experiencing about the unwanted sexual 
advances, and the kid turns to somebody in the school, right, 
for help, and they're like, ``Oh, I'm sorry. I cannot help you 
with that.'' As a parent, what would you do? Right? You would 
hold the school's administration into account. And that's one 
of the reasons that I am here today.
    Chair Blumenthal. Thanks, Senator Hawley.
    I would just, again, make the point that the Kids Online 
Safety bill imposes accountability. And I want to join the 
pledge to seek a vote before the end of the year. I'm very 
hopeful we'll have not only a vote, but an overwhelmingly 
positive bipartisan vote in favor of the Kids Online Safety 
bill.
    And I challenge social media and Big Tech to come forward 
and put your money where your mouth is--put your actions where 
your rhetoric is, support this bill.
    For years, in fact, before our Committee they have said, 
``Oh, well we want regulation, but just not that regulation.'' 
And that has been their mantra, ``Trust us.''
    No longer will kids or parents trust social media to impose 
the right safeguards, and we want to give them the tools that 
their products need, so that kids can take back their lives 
online. Senator Blackburn.
    Senator Blackburn. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you, 
again, for your patience today.
    I wish that my colleague from Vermont was still here. It 
was 2012 when he and I started on Privacy, and filed the first 
Privacy bill in the House. And as Senator Welch was saying, 
we've been at this for a long time and we've been fought by Big 
Tech every single step of the way--every way.
    And it's been really quite amazing to see, because they 
are--and sometimes people will say, how did tech companies grow 
this big this fast? And they didn't have the guidelines, the 
rules, and restraints that the physical world has. And it's 
kind of been the Wild West. And we've seen that in how they 
choose to gather data and data mine, and use that to make the 
dollar--the eyeballs. They've got to keep these eyeballs on the 
page. The longer they keep 'em, the more money they make.
    Now I want to go back to the hearing we had with Mr. 
Mosseri in December 2021. And for the record, I want us to 
build out a little bit more of this framework because I think 
it's important to the States that have joined the lawsuit. I 
think it's important to us as we work to get the Kids Online 
Safety Act passed.
    Now, when you were with Facebook, you built a structure 
that would allow for some online governance and you put in 
place what you thought was a pretty good process for keeping 
people safe online. Correct?
    Mr. Bejar. That's correct.
    Senator Blackburn. And basically, you had embarked on 
safety by design. Is that correct?
    Mr. Bejar. That is correct.
    Senator Blackburn. Okay. And you were putting in place a 
duty of care for the social media company to be responsive to 
the users that were on those platforms.
    Mr. Bejar. That is correct. And as I was going through one 
of these materials, I remember talking about bullying and 
teenagers and said that we as a company had the responsibility 
not only to the teens within the product, but to also improve 
the world's understanding of these issues so that the field 
could be moved forward. And that is the spirit with which we 
engaged the work.
    Senator Blackburn. And then in 2013, Facebook decided they 
were going to change the rules and allow kids ages 13 to 17 to 
post content on Instagram. Correct?
    Mr. Bejar. I don't know the exact date that change 
happened.
    Senator Blackburn. Okay. I think that that is accurate. And 
allowing them--what do you think changed? What motivated them 
to drop that age and allow 13-year-olds?
    Mr. Bejar. I cannot speak to their motivation, but what I 
can say is that if you look at those 2013 presentations and 
2012, one of the things that is written about there, is the 
fact that a 13-year-old, right, will do riskier behavior and 
feels things more intensely because that's where they are 
developmentally. And so making a change that potentially 
increases their audience, I think would be inconsistent with 
that understanding.
    Senator Blackburn. I find it so interesting that whether it 
was Zuckerberg, or Sandberg, or Cox, when you highlighted with 
them how readers were responding to the survey--users were 
responding and you kept trying to direct this toward the 
experience--not the perception, but the experience. And that is 
noted several times in your emails to them.
    Even though 51 percent of the users may say they've had a 
negative experience, they chose not to address that issue. And 
in most corporations allowing issues like that to just slide 
would never be tolerated. So it is left when I ask myself, why 
did they do that? It has to be because they were motivated by 
profit, over motivation to protect their users in the virtual 
space.
    I do want to ask you just a couple of things to go back on 
your memo to Adam Mosseri, the October 14th email, and you laid 
out an agenda and an opportunity for items for discussion so 
that you would make good use of your time. And you explicitly 
and specifically went through the numbers on kids that had 
received different negative interactions. And then you broke 
out the data by age, and you created a chart so that he could 
look at it in a Google doc.
    Mr. Bejar. Correct.
    Senator Blackburn. How did he respond when you broke it out 
by age? Or did he take the time to look at it?
    Mr. Bejar. It is my experience of all the years in Meta, 
that an executive gets that email, reads it thoroughly, looks 
at all of the attachments. And so it would be my expectation 
that he had read it.
    Senator Blackburn. Okay.
    Mr. Bejar. My conversation with him, he demonstrated 
understanding of everything I spoke about, and we specifically 
talked about the button for a teen girl who received unwanted 
advances.
    Senator Blackburn. Okay. Thank you for that. I think that 
what troubles me is knowing that harm was being done to kids 
and then to tell us, and I quoted back to you some of his 
comments from his testimony that he gave to us, and for him to 
allude to the fact--to give the impression that they've built 
tools that prevent these adverse activities.
    But then, you know, it's that old thing of the truth, the 
whole truth, and nothing but the truth. It was true. They had 
built tools. You built them. That was true.
    But they chose to remove that. And in doing that, there are 
hundreds of children that we have met with their parents and we 
have heard about the suicides, the attempted suicides, and the 
adverse impact on these children. Thank you.
    Chair Blumenthal. Thanks, Senator Blackburn. Thank you so 
much for being here today.
    As you can tell from the turnout, there is very strong 
bipartisan support for reform because actions do speak louder 
than words.
    And my hope is that colleagues will join Senator Hawley, 
and me, and Senator Blackburn, and Senator Durbin, and others 
in seeking action on a very doable, practical, politically 
achievable bill that targets the design of this product, much 
as we would a safer car, or stopping addiction to cigarettes 
and tobacco and nicotine.
    Big Tech is very much in danger. I would say it is the next 
Big Tobacco, and I'm hoping that it will join in this effort to 
make its product safer.
    In some ways, what we face here is a garden variety 
challenge to improve the reliability and safety of a product 
that uses a black box that very few people understand, which 
makes it more complex and mysterious, but no less urgent and 
ultimately understandable by everyday Americans.
    Everyday Americans understand the harm that's being done. 
We have seen and heard it from moms and dads, from teenagers 
who have come to us and pleaded, absolutely implored us to act 
now--not at some distant point in the future.
    And so by the end of the year, I'm very hopeful that we 
will have a vote, and that it will be an overwhelmingly 
bipartisan vote, in part thanks to the testimony that you have 
offered today.
    It has been tremendously impactful and moving and very 
powerful in its science-based persuasion. You're an engineer, 
as you have stated, you're not a lawyer, but ultimately 
engineering is what may save Facebook from the perils and 
dangers that it's creating along with other social media. It's 
not alone.
    And my hope is that we will move forward so that, in 
effect, we can make Big Tech the next Big Tobacco in terms of a 
concerted effort to reduce its harm and inform the public about 
how they can do it, as well.
    So thank you for your testimony today and this hearing will 
be adjourned now, but the record will remain open for a week in 
case colleagues have any questions they want to submit in 
writing.
    And in the meantime, again, my thanks to you for your very 
impactful and important testimony today.
    The meeting is adjourned.
    [Whereupon, at 12:11 p.m., the hearing was adjourned.]
    [Additional material submitted for the record follows.]

    [GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    


                            A P P E N D I X


The following submissions are available at:

  https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/CHRG-118shrg60432/pdf/CHRG-
    118shrg
    60432-add1.pdf


Submitted by Chair Blumenthal:

 Bejar, Arturo, email to Mark Zuckerberg, et al., October 5, 2021.     2

 Bejar, Arturo, attachment to email to Mark Zuckerberg, et al., 
    October 5, 2021...............................................     4

 Bejar, Arturo, email to Adam Mosseri, October 14, 2021, source: 
    The Wall Street Journal.......................................     5

 Commonwealth of Massachusetts v. Meta Platforms, Inc. and 
    Instagram, LLC, November 6, 2021..............................     7

                                 [all]

