
[House Hearing, 119 Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]


             LEGISLATIVE SOLUTIONS TO PROTECT CHILDREN 
                          AND TEENS ONLINE
=======================================================================

                                HEARING

                               BEFORE THE

                   SUBCOMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, MANUFACTURING, 
                                AND TRADE

                                 OF THE

                    COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                    ONE HUNDRED NINETEENTH CONGRESS

                             FIRST SESSION

                               __________

                            DECEMBER 2, 2025

                               __________

                           Serial No. 119-44


     Published for the use of the Committee on Energy and Commerce
     
[GRAPHIC NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]     

                   govinfo.gov/committee/house-energy
                        energycommerce.house.gov
                        
                                __________
                                
                       U.S. GOVERNMENT PUBLISING OFFICE
63-241 PDF                    WASHINGTON : 2026
=======================================================================
                        
                    COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE

                        BRETT GUTHRIE, Kentucky
                                 Chairman
ROBERT E. LATTA, Ohio                FRANK PALLONE, Jr., New Jersey
H. MORGAN GRIFFITH, Virginia           Ranking Member
GUS M. BILIRAKIS, Florida            DIANA DeGETTE, Colorado
RICHARD HUDSON, North Carolina       JAN SCHAKOWSKY, Illinois
EARL L. ``BUDDY'' CARTER, Georgia    DORIS O. MATSUI, California
GARY J. PALMER, Alabama              KATHY CASTOR, Florida
NEAL P. DUNN, Florida, Vice          PAUL TONKO, New York
    Chairman                         YVETTE D. CLARKE, New York
DAN CRENSHAW, Texas                  RAUL RUIZ, California
JOHN JOYCE, Pennsylvania             SCOTT H. PETERS, California
RANDY K. WEBER, Sr., Texas           DEBBIE DINGELL, Michigan
RICK W. ALLEN, Georgia               MARC A. VEASEY, Texas
TROY BALDERSON, Ohio                 ROBIN L. KELLY, Illinois
RUSS FULCHER, Idaho                  NANETTE DIAZ BARRAGAN, California
AUGUST PFLUGER, Texas                DARREN SOTO, Florida
DIANA HARSHBARGER, Tennessee         KIM SCHRIER, Washington
MARIANNETTE MILLER-MEEKS, Iowa       LORI TRAHAN, Massachusetts
KAT CAMMACK, Florida                 LIZZIE FLETCHER, Texas
JAY OBERNOLTE, California            ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ, New York
JOHN JAMES, Michigan                 JAKE AUCHINCLOSS, Massachusetts
CLIFF BENTZ, Oregon                  TROY A. CARTER, Louisiana
ERIN HOUCHIN, Indiana                ROBERT MENENDEZ, New Jersey
RUSSELL FRY, South Carolina          KEVIN MULLIN, California
LAUREL M. LEE, Florida               GREG LANDSMAN, Ohio
NICHOLAS A. LANGWORTHY, New York     JENNIFER L. McCLELLAN, Virginia
THOMAS H. KEAN, Jr., New Jersey
MICHAEL A. RULLI, Ohio
GABE EVANS, Colorado
CRAIG A. GOLDMAN, Texas
JULIE FEDORCHAK, North Dakota
                                 ------                                

                           Professional Staff

                     MEGAN JACKSON, Staff Director
                SOPHIE KHANAHMADI, Deputy Staff Director
               TIFFANY GUARASCIO, Minority Staff Director
           Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade

                       GUS M. BILIRAKIS, Florida
                                 Chairman
RUSS FULCHER, Idaho, Vice Chairman   JAN SCHAKOWSKY, Illinois
NEAL P. DUNN, Florida                  Ranking Member
KAT CAMMACK, Florida                 KATHY CASTOR, Florida
JAY OBERNOLTE, California            DARREN SOTO, Florida
JOHN JAMES, Michigan                 LORI TRAHAN, Massachusetts
CLIFF BENTZ, Oregon                  KEVIN MULLIN, California
ERIN HOUCHIN, Indiana                YVETTE D. CLARKE, New York
RUSSELL FRY, South Carolina          DEBBIE DINGELL, Michigan
LAUREL M. LEE, Florida               MARC A. VEASEY, Texas
THOMAS H. KEAN, Jr., New Jersey      ROBIN L. KELLY, Illinois
GABE EVANS, Colorado                 KIM SCHRIER, Washington
CRAIG A. GOLDMAN, Texas              FRANK PALLONE, Jr., New Jersey (ex 
BRETT GUTHRIE, Kentucky (ex              officio)
    officio)
                             C O N T E N T S

                              ----------                              
                                                                   Page
Hon. Gus M. Bilirakis, a Representative in Congress from the 
  State of Florida, opening statement............................     2
    Prepared statement...........................................     3
Hon. Jan Schakowsky, a Representative in Congress from the State 
  of Illinois, opening statement.................................     5
    Prepared statement...........................................     6
Hon. Kevin Mullin, a Representative in Congress from the State of 
  California, prepared statement.................................     8
Hon. Brett Guthrie, a Representative in Congress from the 
  Commonwealth of Kentucky, opening statement....................     9
    Prepared statement...........................................    11
Hon. Frank Pallone, Jr., a Representative in Congress from the 
  State of New Jersey, opening statement.........................    14
    Prepared statement...........................................    16

                               Witnesses

Marc Berkman, Chief Executive Officer, Organization for Social 
  Media Safety...................................................    18
    Prepared statement...........................................    20
    Answers to submitted questions...............................   278
Paul Lekas, Executive Vice President, Global Public Policy and 
  Government Affairs, Software & Information Industry Association    38
    Prepared statement...........................................    40
    Answers to submitted questions...............................   283
Kate Ruane, Director, Free Expression Project, Center for 
  Democracy & Technology.........................................    52
    Prepared statement \1\
    Answers to submitted questions...............................   287
Joel Thayer, President, Digital Progress Institute...............    53
    Prepared statement...........................................    56

                             Legislation \2\

H.R. ___, the Children and Teens' Online Privacy Protection Act
Discussion Draft, H.R. ___, the Kids Online Safety Act
Discussion Draft, H.R. ___, the Reducing Exploitative Social 
  Media Exposure for Teens (RESET) Act
H.R. 2657, Sammy's Law
H.R. 3149, the App Store Accountability Act
H.R. 1623, the Shielding Children's Retinas from Egregious 
  Exposure on the Net (SCREEN) Act
H.R. ___, the Safe Social Media Act
H.R. ___, the Algorithmic Choice and Transparency Act
H.R. ___, the No Fentanyl on Social Media Act
H.R. ___, the Promoting a Safe Internet for Minors Act
Discussion Draft, H.R. ___, the Safeguarding Adolescents From 
  Exploitative (SAFE) Bots Act

----------

\1\ Ms. Ruane's statement has been retained in committee files and is 
available at https://docs.house.gov/meetings/IF/IF17/20251202/118714/
HHRG-119-IF17-Wstate-RuaneK-20251202.pdf.
\2\ The bills have been retained in committee files and are available 
at https://docs.house.gov/Committee/Calendar/
ByEvent.aspx?EventID=118714.
Discussion Draft, H.R. ___, the Kids Internet Safety Partnership 
  Act \2\
H.R. 5360, the AI Warnings And Resources for Education (AWARE) 
  Act \2\
H.R. 6265, the Safer Guarding of Adolescents from Malicious 
  Interactions on Network Games (GAMING) Act \2\
Discussion Draft, H.R. ___, the Assessing Safety Tools for 
  Parents and Minors Act \2\
H.R. ___, the Stop Profiling Youth and (SPY) Kids Act \2\
H.R. ___, the Safe Messaging for Kids Act \2\
H.R. ___, the Don't Sell Kids' Data Act of 2025 \2\
Discussion Draft, H.R. ___, the Parents Over Platforms Act \2\

                           Submitted Material

Inclusion of the following was approved by unanimous consent.
List of documents submitted for the record.......................   102
Letters from multiple correspondents to Mr. Guthrie, et al. \3\
Letter of November 3, 2025, from Penny Young Nance, Chief 
  Executive Officer and President, Concerned Women for America, 
  to committee members...........................................   104
Letter of December 1, 2025, from Nicole Smith, President, Dignity 
  Defense Institute, to Mr. Guthrie, et al.......................   105
Letter of December 2, 2025, from Morgan Reed, President, ACT-the 
  App Association, to Mr. Bilirakis, et al.......................   107
Letter of November 26, 2025, from Sam A. Cabral, International 
  President, International Union of Police Associations, to Mr. 
  Bilirakis, et al...............................................   113
Letter of December 1, 2025, from Engine to Mr. Bilirakis and Ms. 
  Schakowsky.....................................................   115
Letter of December 1, 2025, from Association of Ministers in 
  Utah, et al., to Mr. Guthrie and committee members.............   118
Letter of December 1, 2025, from the Center for Innovation and 
  Free Enterprise to Mr. Guthrie, et al..........................   120
Letter from Erich Mische, Chief Executive Officer, Suicide 
  Awareness Voices of Education (SAVE), to Mr. Bilirakis, et al..   121
Poll data from Digital Childhood Alliance, May 1, 2025...........   126
Letter of December 1, 2025, from Indiana University College 
  Republicans to Mr. Guthrie, et al..............................   129
Letter from Raul Lopez, Chairman of the Board and Cofounder, and 
  Tommy Vallejos, Executive Director and Cofounder, Latinos for 
  Tennessee. to Mr. Guthrie, et al...............................   131
Letter of December 1, 2025, from the Main Street Privacy 
  Coalition to Mr. Guthrie, et al................................   133
Letter of December 1, 2025, from Hilary Ware, Global Head of 
  Privacy, Apple, to Mr. Bilirakis and Ms. Schakowsky............   135
Letter of December 2, 2025, from Chan Park, Head of U.S. and 
  Canada Policy and Partnerships, OpenAI, to Mr. Bilirakis and 
  Ms. Schakowsky.................................................   139
Statement of Amy Bos, Vice President of Government Affairs, 
  NetChoice, to subcommittee, December 2, 2025...................   141
Letter of December 2, 2025, from Arjun Bhatnagar, Chief Executive 
  Officer, Cloaked, to subcommittee members......................   145
Letter of December 2, 2025, from Center for Black Equity, et al., 
  to subcommittee members........................................   146
Federal Trade Commission documents related to app stores.........   150
Letter of December 2, 2025, from Digital Childhood Alliance, et 
  al., to Mr. Guthrie, et al.....................................   169
Letter of December 1, 2025, from Stephanie Smith, President and 
  Chief Executive Officer, Alabama Policy Institute, to Mr. 
  Guthrie, et al.................................................   173
Letter from Sheriff Michael J. Murphy, Livingston County, 
  Michigan, to committee members.................................   175
Letter of December 1, 2025, from Design It For Us, et al., to Mr. 
  Guthrie and Mr. Pallone........................................   176
Letter of November 24, 2025, from various parents to House 
  Speaker Mike Johnson, et al....................................   178

----------

\2\ The bills have been retained in committee files and are available 
at https://docs.house.gov/Committee/Calendar/
ByEvent.aspx?EventID=118714.
\3\ The information has been retained in committee files and is 
included in the Documents for the Record at https://docs.house.gov/
meetings/IF/IF17/20251202/118714/HHRG-119-IF17-20251202-SD003.pdf.
Statement by AAJ: ``OPPOSE House KOSA & COPPA 2.0''..............   189
Letter of December 1, 2025, from Hilary Ware, Global Head of 
  Privacy, Apple, to Mr. Bilirakis and Ms. Schakowsky............   192
Letter of December 1, 2025, from Tom Kemp, Executive Director, 
  California Privacy Protection Agency, to Mr. Guthrie, et al....   196
Letter of October 15, 2025, from Active Minds, et al., to Senate 
  Majority Leader John Thune, et al..............................   199
Letter from Holly Grosshans, Senior Counsel, Tech Policy, Common 
  Sense Media....................................................   213
Letter of December 1, 2025, from ParentsSOS to subcommittee 
  members........................................................   215
Report, ``Social Media and Youth Mental Health, The U.S. Surgeon 
  General's Advisory,'' 2023 \3\
Report, ``Health Advisory on Social Media Use in Adolescence,'' 
  American Psychological Association, May 2023...................   217
Report, ``Teens, Social Media and Mental Health,'' by Michelle 
  Faverio, et al., Pew Research Center, April 22, 2025 \3\
Statement of Cayce Savage to the Senate Judiciary Committee's 
  Subcommittee on Privacy, Technology, and the Law, September 6, 
  2025...........................................................   229
Responses to Senate Judiciary Committee questions for the record 
  from Cayce Savage..............................................   235
Statement of Jason Sattizahn to the Senate Judiciary Committee's 
  Subcommittee on Privacy, Technology, and the Law, September 9, 
  2025...........................................................   253
Responses to Senate Judiciary Committee questions for the record 
  from Jason Sattizahn...........................................   260
Report, ``Teen Accounts, Broken Promises: How Instagram is 
  Failing to Protect Minors'' \3\

----------

\3\ The information has been retained in committee files and is 
included in the Documents for the Record at https://docs.house.gov/
meetings/IF/IF17/20251202/118714/HHRG-119-IF17-20251202-SD003.pdf.

 
       LEGISLATIVE SOLUTIONS TO PROTECT CHILDREN AND TEENS ONLINE

                              ----------                              


                       TUESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2025

                  House of Representatives,
Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade,
                          Committee on Energy and Commerce,
                                                    Washington, DC.
    The subcommittee met, pursuant to call, at 10:18 a.m., in 
the John D. Dingell Room 2123, Rayburn House Office Building, 
Hon. Gus Bilirakis (chairman of the subcommittee) presiding.
    Members present: Representatives Bilirakis, Fulcher, Dunn, 
Cammack, Obernolte, James, Bentz, Houchin, Fry, Lee, Kean, 
Evans, Goldman, Guthrie (ex officio), Schakowsky (subcommittee 
ranking member), Castor, Soto, Trahan, Mullin, Clarke, Dingell, 
Kelly, Schrier, and Pallone (ex officio).
    Also present: Representatives Joyce and Miller-Meeks.
    Staff present: Christian Calvert, Press Assistant; Jessica 
Donlon, General Counsel; Sydney Greene, Director of Finance and 
Logistics; Megan Jackson, Staff Director; AT Johnson, Special 
Advisor; Daniel Kelly, Press Secretary; Sophie Khanahmadi, 
Deputy Staff Director; Alex Khlopin, Policy Analyst, Commerce, 
Manufacturing, and Trade; Brayden Lacefield, Special Assistant; 
Giulia Leganski, Chief Counsel, Commerce, Manufacturing, and 
Trade; Joel Miller, Chief Counsel; Evangelos Razis, 
Professional Staff Member, Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade; 
Seth Ricketts, Special Assistant; Chris Sarley, Member 
Services/Stakeholder Director; Matt VanHyfte, Communications 
Director; Hannah Anton, Minority Policy Analyst; Keegan 
Cardman, Minority Staff Assistant; Kelly Fabian, Minority Chief 
Counsel, Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade; Waverly Gordon, 
Minority Deputy Staff Director and General Counsel; Tiffany 
Guarascio, Minority Staff Director; Jackson Hall, Minority 
Intern; Perry Hamilton, Minority Deputy Director, Member 
Services and Outreach; Megan Kanne, Minority Professional Staff 
Member; Phoebe Rouge, Minority FTC Detailee; and Andrew 
Souvall, Minority Director of Communications, Outreach, and 
Member Services.
    Mr. Bilirakis. The committee will come to order.
    The chairman recognizes himself for 5 minutes for an 
opening statement.

OPENING STATEMENT OF HON. GUS M. BILIRAKIS, A REPRESENTATIVE IN 
               CONGRESS FROM THE STATE OF FLORIDA

    Good morning, and welcome to today's hearing to discuss 
legislative solutions to protect children online.
    Our children are facing an online epidemic. This issue is 
personal. We have parents on both sides of the aisle, and we 
all have constituents who have been affected. They are why we 
are here today.
    We are examining almost 20 bills today which together form 
a comprehensive strategy to protect kids online. Our approach 
is straightforward: Protect kids, empower parents, and future-
proof our legislation as new risks and technologies emerge.
    These bills are not stand-alone solutions. They complement 
and reinforce one another to create the safest possible 
environment for our children. There is no one-size-fits-all 
bill to protect kids online, and our plan reflects that.
    Parents must be empowered to safeguard their children 
online. Just as a parent can observe their children's 
activities and social behaviors at home and at school 
functions, so should they be able to check on their kids' 
activities online.
    Our bills ensure parents have the tools and resources to 
keep their children safe in the modern world. A child's life in 
the 21st century is much more complex than generations past, 
and parents need the tools to adapt.
    Our bills are mindful of the Constitution's protections for 
free speech. We have seen it in the States: Laws with good 
intentions have been struck down for violating the First 
Amendment. We are learning from those experiences, because a 
law that gets struck down in court does not protect a child. 
And the status quo is unacceptable, as far as I am concerned.
    All our bills employ this strategy, including the Kids 
Online Safety Act, or KOSA, that I am proud to lead. KOSA sets 
a national standard to protect kids across America and mandates 
default safeguards and easy-to-use parental controls to empower 
families.
    It blocks children from being exposed to or targeted with 
ads for illegal or inappropriate content like drugs and 
alcohol. It takes on addictive design features that keep kids 
hooked and harm their mental health. And, most importantly, it 
holds Big Tech accountable with mandatory audits and strong 
enforcement by the FTC and State attorneys general.
    I made precise changes to ensure KOSA is durable. Don't 
mistake durability for weakness, folks. This bill has teeth. By 
focusing on design features rather than protecting speech, we 
will ensure it can withstand legal challenge while delivering 
real protections for kids online--kids and their families.
    I am proud of the members of this subcommittee for working 
on legislation to address a myriad of harms and challenges. 
This issue is personal to every one of us up here. It shows in 
the number of bills before us today. I know this is a shared, 
bipartisan goal.
    My office is open. Call me or find me on the floor. I think 
you know that I am willing to listen. Let's find a way to work 
together. And this is not a partisan issue, folks. Let's find a 
way to work together and save America's kids from the threats 
they are facing online. That is the bottom line.
[GRAPHICS NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]

    Mr. Bilirakis. I yield back the balance of my time.
    The chairman recognizes the ranking member, Ms. Schakowsky, 
for her 5 minutes for an opening statement.
    You are recognized.

 OPENING STATEMENT OF HON. JAN SCHAKOWSKY, A REPRESENTATIVE IN 
              CONGRESS FROM THE STATE OF ILLINOIS

    Ms. Schakowsky. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    There is not a single thing that we deal with, in my view, 
that is more important than to take care of our kids. And I 
believe that the legislation that has been offered by the 
Republicans does not do the job. And it is really frustrating, 
because we have been working on this bill and moving it around 
here and there for a long time.
    Yesterday, I had the privilege of meeting with three women, 
who are here today in the audience, who have been here for 5 
years because their children died not necessarily. They didn't 
need to die. And it is the kinds of things that we can learn 
from them that we can do much better.
    I mean to say that the--that--who can't--yes, the different 
States--what is it? The States--States--sorry--cannot do their 
own bill--cannot do their own bill. I am sorry. We have a long, 
long way to go to protect our children and to make sure that 
all are involved.
    [The prepared statement of Ms. Schakowsky follows:]
    [GRAPHIC NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    
    Ms. Schakowsky. Now I want to yield at this point to 
Congressman Mullin to continue in this discussion.
    Mr. Mullin. Thank you, Ranking Member Schakowsky, and thank 
you, Mr. Chair, for convening this hearing on a very important 
topic.
    Protecting kids is perhaps the single most unifying, 
bipartisan issue we have here in Congress. We all want to keep 
our kids safe. I myself am the father of two small boys who 
aren't yet--but will be before I know it--an age when they will 
be navigating the internet on their own. To say I am worried 
for them is an understatement.
    But the country and Congress is not without tools to keep 
people safe online. In fact, more than 100 years ago, the 
Federal Trade Commission was set up to prevent harms to 
consumers of all kinds, including kids. Indeed, most of the 
bills we will be discussing today rely on the FTC to enforce 
them.
    So that is why it has been stunning to see the contempt in 
which the Trump administration has held the FTC. Rather than 
seeking from Congress a change in the law, President Trump has 
simply attempted to unlawfully fire two of its Commissioners, 
eliminating bipartisan input.
    Meanwhile, the Chair of the FTC has attempted to 
dramatically reduce the Commission's staff through buy-outs and 
other drastic measures. He has actually bragged that he wants 
to get the Commission's staff size to its lowest level in 10 
years.
    The Chair has also been using the tools of the FTC to wage 
a culture war against medical professionals and parental 
choices he disagrees with. This is more than a harmful 
deviation from the Commission's mission. It undermines consumer 
protections for all of us by taking cops off their normal beat.
    Yet today we will be talking about all the things we want 
and need the FTC to do to protect kids online. But who will be 
doing that work? The remaining employees at the FTC, who are 
already stretched too thin?
    As evidenced by this long list of bipartisan bills, there 
is clearly a lot of alignment across the parties about the role 
we want the FTC to play. In that spirit, I hope that, as we 
discuss the legislative proposals today, we acknowledge the 
need to fully fund the FTC, protect its bipartisan commission 
structure, and ensure the FTC is focused on the mission 
Congress gives it.
    I look forward to a robust discussion today.
    [The prepared statement of Mr. Mullin follows:]
    [GRAPHIC NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    
    Mr. Mullin. With that, I yield back.
    Mr. Bilirakis. The gentleman yields back.
    I now recognize the chairman of the full committee, Mr. 
Guthrie, for his 5 minutes.

 OPENING STATEMENT OF HON. BRETT GUTHRIE, A REPRESENTATIVE IN 
           CONGRESS FROM THE COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY

    Mr. Guthrie. Thank you, Chairman Bilirakis. Thanks for 
having this hearing today. And thank you to our witnesses for 
being with us here today.
    Tragedy strikes children every day online. In March, I 
shared the story of a constituent who took his life due to a 
sextortion scheme. I know each of us here today and many others 
have similar stories to share. And while we passed the TAKE IT 
DOWN Act into law earlier this Congress to address sextortion, 
countless other harms persist, and it is our responsibility to 
find a solution.
    That is why we are here today. We have almost two dozen 
bills before us that take a broad approach to create a 
comprehensive strategy to protect children online.
    Imagine a 14-year-old child trying to download a social 
media app on their phone. There are many different layers 
needed to protect them from harm. And we are discussing a 
comprehensive approach today, where different types of 
legislation could work in harmony to address various concerns.
    For example, age verification is needed first and foremost, 
including appropriate parental consent, even before logging in. 
Once a user's age is known, privacy protections under COPPA 2.0 
would be triggered.
    We also have a range of bills to further address issues 
like parental monitoring of online activity, restrictions on 
the types of apps kids can access, how information is presented 
to kids in apps, and how children's data is used by online 
platforms.
    And, finally, the Kids Online Safety Act provides robust 
parental controls and limitations on harmful design features to 
ensure that platforms live up to these standards.
    Now, I would note that we went to great lengths to address 
concerns that Members of the House on both sides of the aisle 
raised regarding KOSA in the last Congress, as well as concerns 
that the previous version would not pass a legal challenge and, 
thus, not protect a single child. The KOSA we are considering 
today still holds platforms accountable while addressing these 
concerns.
    Further, when it comes to AI chatbots, we learned about 
this in committee a couple of weeks ago. The SAFE Bots Act and 
AWARE Act will ensure users are appropriately informed in their 
using AI and that there are educational resources for kids, 
parents, and educators on the safe use of AI chatbots.
    These exemplify our strategy that Chairman Bilirakis has 
highlighted. The online world is large and complex, and there 
is no silver-bullet solution to protect kids. Each bill we are 
looking at today could be a piece of a puzzle designed to work 
together to create the safest possible environment for children 
online.
    They empower parents through parental consent mechanisms, 
standards for parental tools, and educational resources. They 
are curated to withstand constitutional challenges. A law that 
gets struck down protects no one, and, if that happened, would 
fail to protect the very children we are here to protect.
    We have a unique opportunity to work together to craft a 
multifaceted solution to protect children online.
    Thank you again to our witnesses for being here. We really 
appreciate the efforts you made to be here. We greatly look 
forward to the discussions.
    [The prepared statement of Mr. Guthrie follows:]
    [GRAPHIC NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    
    Mr. Guthrie. And I would yield back.
    Mr. Bilirakis. The gentleman yields back.
    Now I will recognize the ranking member of the full 
committee, Mr. Pallone, for his 5 minutes.

OPENING STATEMENT OF HON. FRANK PALLONE, Jr., A REPRESENTATIVE 
            IN CONGRESS FROM THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY

    Mr. Pallone. Thank you, Chairman Bilirakis.
    Today, we are discussing the important topic of youth 
online safety. And as more of our lives are lived online, there 
have been tremendous changes in how we communicate, socialize, 
and learn. And with these changes come new challenges to 
ensuring the health and wellbeing of all Americans but 
particularly our youngest and most vulnerable.
    We can all agree that we want our kids and teens to be safe 
online. Congress, along with parents, educators, and States, 
can and should play an active role in keeping minors safe. And 
that role must include prioritizing strong, comprehensive data 
privacy legislation, which unfortunately is not included in the 
19 bills we are considering today.
    Comprehensive data privacy legislation is something I have 
cared about for many years. But in the absence of data privacy 
legislation, companies will continue to collect, process, and 
sell as much of our data and the data of our kids as possible. 
And this data allows companies to exploit human psychology and 
individual preferences to fuel invasive ads and design 
features, without regard to the harm suffered by those still 
developing critical thinking and judgment.
    Artificial intelligence is only accelerating existing 
incentives because, like social media, AI relies on the 
exploitation of our data.
    Without such a strong legislative solution for children, 
teens, and all Americans, we must recognize that the measures 
we take in Congress will not address the full scope of the 
problems perpetrated by an online ecosystem fundamentally built 
on reckless and abusive data practices. We can and should do 
more for our children and for all consumers.
    But if comprehensive privacy legislation was easy, it would 
already be law. And the urgency of addressing harms to children 
and teens presents an opportunity to make progress towards 
ensuring the internet is a safer place for all Americans.
    This is why I am pleased we will be discussing my bill that 
will prevent shadowy data brokers from selling minors' data and 
allow parents and teens to request the deletion of any data 
already in the hands of brokers.
    We simply should not allow nameless data harvesters to 
profit off of our kids' data. Our kids deserve the right to 
enter adulthood with a clean slate, not a detailed dossier that 
will follow them throughout their adult lives.
    They also deserve online safety legislation that will make 
the internet safer, not put their data and physical safety more 
at risk. And I am concerned that mandating third-party access 
to children's data and requiring additional collection and 
sharing of sensitive data before accessing content, sending a 
message, or downloading an app would move us in the wrong 
direction in the fight for online privacy.
    Congress must also remember that, unfortunately, many kids 
find themselves in unsupportive or even abusive or neglected 
households. There can be real-world harm from allowing parents 
complete access and control over their teens' existence online.
    Instead of shifting ever more burden onto parents and teens 
and putting ever more trust in tech companies, we can give 
everyone safer defaults and more control over their digital 
lives.
    We can also require companies to evaluate their algorithms 
for bias and harms before making our kids the guinea pigs.
    And we can resist efforts to preempt existing protections 
and let States continue to respond to rapidly evolving 
technologies, like AI chatbots, and enforce their existing 
child safety and privacy laws.
    And we can all stand up for an independent Federal Trade 
Commission.
    Now, the FTC, under both Republican and Democratic 
leadership, has consistently been Americans' strongest champion 
against the abuses of all who seek to exploit our Nation's 
children and adults for profit both on- and offline. When 
President Trump attempted to illegally fire the FTC's 
Democratic Commissioners, he made our children less safe 
online.
    If my Republican colleagues want to further empower the FTC 
to protect kids and teens, they must join Democrats in standing 
up for a bipartisan and independent FTC. They should join us in 
demanding that the Democratic Commissioners be reinstated.
    So I look forward to the discussion today on this important 
issue.
    [The prepared statement of Mr. Pallone follows:]
    [GRAPHIC NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    
    Mr. Pallone. And I thank you, Mr. Chairman, and yield back 
the balance of my time.
    Mr. Bilirakis. The gentleman yields back. We appreciate 
that.
    And now we are going to introduce our witnesses for today.
    Mr. Marc Berkman, CEO of the Organization for Social Media 
Safety, welcome, sir.
    Mr. Paul Lekas, executive vice president, Software & 
Information Industry Association, welcome.
    Ms. Kate Ruane, director of the Free Expression Project, 
Center for Democracy & Technology, welcome.
    And Mr. Joel Thayer, who is president of the Digital 
Progress Institute.
    Welcome to all our witnesses.
    So, Mr. Berkman, you are recognized for your 5 minutes of 
testimony.

     STATEMENTS OF MARC BERKMAN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, 
  ORGANIZATION FOR SOCIAL MEDIA SAFETY; PAUL LEKAS, EXECUTIVE 
 VICE PRESIDENT, GLOBAL PUBLIC POLICY AND GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS, 
   SOFTWARE & INFORMATION INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION; KATE RUANE, 
   DIRECTOR, FREE EXPRESSION PROJECT, CENTER FOR DEMOCRACY & 
   TECHNOLOGY; AND JOEL THAYER, PRESIDENT, DIGITAL PROGRESS 
                           INSTITUTE

                   STATEMENT OF MARC BERKMAN

    Mr. Berkman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    Good afternoon and thank you to the distinguished members 
of this committee for the opportunity to offer my 
organization's social media safety expertise at this historic 
legislative hearing to protect our children from online harms.
    My name is Marc Berkman, and I am the CEO of the 
Organization for Social Media Safety, the first national 
nonpartisan consumer-protection organization focused 
exclusively on social media.
    The reason for this legislative hearing must be explicitly 
clear: Social media is harming children. It is harming millions 
of America's children.
    Up to 95 percent of youth ages 13 to 17 report using a 
social media platform, with more than a third saying they use 
social media almost constantly. Nearly 40 percent of children 
ages 8 to 12 use social media. In our own study with the UCLA 
School of Education including over 16,000 teens, we have found 
that 50 percent self-report using social media for more than 5 
hours daily.
    The evidence, based on credible research and testimony in 
this very chamber, shows severe, pervasive harms related to 
adolescent social media use: cyberbullying, harassment, 
predation, human trafficking, drug trafficking, violence, 
fraud, sextortion, suicide, depression, cognitive impairment, 
eating disorders, and more.
    Social media-related harm is far reaching, impacting homes 
in every congressional district, families of every demographic. 
But to understand the true toll, we need look no further than 
the many parents here with us today who have tragically lost a 
child to a social media-related threat.
    Sitting behind me is Rose Bronstein. Her son, Nate 
Bronstein, forever 15, died by suicide after suffering severe 
cyberbullying over social media. And Samuel Chapman. His son, 
Sammy Chapman, forever 16, died after ingesting fentanyl-
poisoned drugs that he easily acquired from a drug dealer 
operating on social media.
    Rose and Sam and the many other angel parents who traveled 
from across the country to be here today have collectively 
spent years fiercely and bravely advocating for urgently needed 
legislative reform in the hope that Congress acts to ensure 
that other families do not have to suffer such tragedies. We 
owe them a debt of gratitude.
    The record on the extent and severity of the social media-
related harm impacting our children is clear, yet the social 
media industry continues to fail to protect our children.
    Thank you to the brave work of whistleblowers and attorneys 
general across the country.
    We know that the industry has an entrenched, durable 
conflict of interest when it comes to safety. Even in the face 
of mounting child fatalities, social media executives have 
prioritized growing the number of child users and engagement on 
their platforms over our children's safety, making a Federal 
legislative response absolutely essential and critically 
urgent. The social media industry has been too slow, their 
solutions too ineffective, their apathy, sadly, too apparent.
    And so we are grateful that the committee today recognizes 
that a broad approach with multiple tactics are needed: 
resources for education; accountability and rules for 
platforms; research; privacy reforms; and, critically, safety 
technology.
    I would like to highlight Sammy's Law.
    One of the most effective ways for parents to protect 
children is by using third-party safety software, which can 
provide alerts to parents when dangerous content is shared 
through children's social media accounts, enabling lifesaving 
interventions at critical moments.
    For example, if a child is suffering severe cyberbullying 
via social media, then a parent who has received an alert 
through third-party safety software can immediately provide 
critical support.
    We know that this intervention is highly effective. Over 
the last several years, safety software companies have provided 
alerts to parents that have protected millions of children, 
saving numerous lives.
    Sammy's Law will finally provide families with this option 
on all major social media platforms, while also substantially 
increasing data security and child privacy over the status quo. 
We urge this committee to pass this bipartisan, commonsense 
legislation that will save lives.
    American families have sat for years living in quiet 
despair, watching social media steal from their children's 
potential and wellbeing. We are hopeful that this year this 
committee can join together and deliver the solutions families 
so desperately need.
    Thank you, and I look forward to your questions.
    [The prepared statement of Mr. Berkman follows:]
    [GRAPHIC NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    
    Mr. Bilirakis. Thank you so very much.
    Now I will recognize Mr. Lekas for his 5 minutes.
    You are recognized, sir.

                    STATEMENT OF PAUL LEKAS

    Mr. Lekas. Chairman Bilirakis, Ranking Member Schakowsky, 
and members of the subcommittee, thank you for the opportunity 
to appear before you today.
    My name is Paul Lekas, and I serve as executive vice 
president for the Software & Information Industry Association. 
SIIA represents nearly 400 organizations at the forefront of 
innovation, from startups to global leaders in AI, cloud 
computing, education, technology, and more.
    Our mission is to support policies that foster a healthy 
information ecosystem. That cannot occur without responsible 
data use. We share the subcommittee's goal: making the internet 
a safer place for all. We appreciate that the subcommittee has 
taken a fresh look at how to achieve this. We are here to urge 
passage of bipartisan legislation that protects online youth 
privacy and safety.
    It is exactly for this reason that we worked closely with 
industry and policymakers to develop our Child and Teen Privacy 
and Safety Principles in 2024. Many of the themes in the 
principles are reflected in provisions of the bills under 
consideration today. I would like to highlight a few of these.
    First is data minimization. Companies must be required to 
minimize the collection of personal data from youth and 
restrict how that data is used. This is widely recognized as a 
best practice by privacy experts and is even more important in 
the youth context.
    Second, we believe companies should not advertise to youth 
based on their online behavior, nor should they create profiles 
of youth for targeted advertising. Contextual advertising 
should remain permitted to ensure that youth receive age-
appropriate content.
    Third is empowerment and transparency. Legislation should 
incentivize companies to provide easy-to-use tools that allow 
families control over their settings and data. Transparency is 
key to building trust and helping families make informed 
decisions.
    Finally, we need national consistency. The internet is not 
partitioned by State lines. The current patchwork of State 
regulations creates confusion for both platforms and consumers. 
A Federal law must be strong and preemptive to ensure all 
American children have the same high level of protection.
    As Congress considers new legislation, a threshold is to 
strike the right balance between the Constitution's protection 
of free expression and the governmental interest in youth 
safety. Thus far, many online safety laws have failed to strike 
that balance.
    Several States have proposed inherently content-based 
regulations, requiring platforms to judge speech as harmful or 
detrimental. These regulations trigger strict scrutiny, and 
courts have historically struck them down for being overbroad 
and infringing on the free expression of adults and minors, 
including content reflective of their own religious or 
political speech.
    Recent case law provides a roadmap. The Supreme Court in 
2025 confirmed that age verification is constitutional when 
targeting sites with unprotected sexually explicit material. On 
the other hand, the Ninth Circuit in 2024 warned that broadly 
requiring platforms to assess the risk of harm can transform a 
design regulation into an unconstitutional content regulation.
    Legislating in this area is possible but requires 
precision. There is much that is permissible: securing data, 
restricting certain features, leveraging nontechnical tools 
like digital literacy.
    Vague duty-of-care models, like the Senate version of KOSA, 
that require filtering content based on subjective harm will 
invite and fail constitutional scrutiny. The version of KOSA 
before this subcommittee reflects a serious attempt to grapple 
with this challenge.
    In addition to creating new tools, we support modernizing 
older ones, like COPPA. We support codifying recent FTC 
regulations and, crucially, strengthening the privacy 
protections at the intersection of COPPA and FERPA. We must 
ensure that when schools contract with vendors, student data is 
used solely for educational purposes and we are not 
overburdening our families.
    We also urge Congress to avoid unintended consequences in 
two important but very different areas.
    The first is age assurance. Mandating age verification 
requires collecting sensitive data, often government IDs, from 
all users, not just kids. We should instead incentivize age 
estimation and parental controls which protect youth without 
creating high-value data repositories for cyber criminals. We 
must also recognize that everyone in the ecosystem has a role 
to play.
    The second involves the collection and use of third-party 
data. Many institutions rely on data about minors for essential 
services, like extending auto insurance to teen drivers,; 
helping youth to develop credit history; protecting minors from 
identify theft; college scholarships; financial aid; countering 
human trafficking--the list goes on. We should prevent actors 
from misusing youth data without disrupting vital, societally 
necessary practices.
    Online safety and privacy for children and teens requires a 
holistic approach. There is no silver bullet. There is room for 
legislation, and we are pleased the subcommittee is considering 
an array of bills to identify the right mix.
    I welcome your questions and look forward to continuing to 
work with you to advance legislation to keep youths safe while 
preserving the internet as a resource for learning and 
connection.
    Thank you.
    [The prepared statement of Mr. Lekas follows:]
    [GRAPHIC NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    
    Mr. Bilirakis. Thank you, Mr. Lekas.
    Now I recognize Ms. Ruane for your 5 minutes. You are 
recognized.

                    STATEMENT OF KATE RUANE

    Ms. Ruane. Thank you so much.
    Thank you, Chair Bilirakis, Ranking Member Schakowsky, 
Chair Guthrie, and Ranking Member Pallone, for the opportunity 
to testify today.
    I am Kate Ruane, director of the Free Expression Project at 
the Center for Democracy & Technology.
    Children will use online services for their entire lives. 
The subcommittee is right to focus on their future.
    I would like to raise five points essential to protecting 
children online.
    First, Congress should address root causes of online harms, 
including privacy. Comprehensive consumer data privacy 
legislation is the best way to protect everyone online.
    Currently, many online services' business models are based 
on advertising sales powered by platforms' collection, use, and 
sale of personal information. This is harmful because it is 
privacy invasive, increasing the risks of data breaches. It is 
also deficient because it ignores better signals of what users 
value about online services by conflating engagement with user 
preference.
    Congress could realign this business model to benefit 
everyone through comprehensive privacy legislation.
    Enhancing children's privacy protections is also a laudable 
goal. Measures like COPPA 2.0 and Don't Sell Kids' Data Act, 
crafted properly, would address some of the root causes of harm 
to kids online.
    But the bills under consideration today put the FTC in 
charge of enforcement. At the same time, the current 
administration is undermining its independence and ability to 
enforce the law fairly.
    As the committee considers how to protect kids, it must 
also ensure that the FTC executes its policies to protect all 
children and support the rule of law.
    Second, protecting children includes protecting their right 
to express themselves online. Minors use social media for 
everything, including to access news, communicate with family 
and friends, do their schoolwork, and create art.
    Children have First Amendment rights, and as Justice Scalia 
wrote, ``Only in relatively narrow and well-defined 
circumstances may the government bar public dissemination of 
protected materials to them.''
    We are encouraged that today's Kids Online Safety Act 
narrows the overly broad duty of care in an attempt to grapple 
with the tension between ensuring safety and protecting free 
expression. This is a difficult balance to strike, but it is 
preferable to flatly banning minors from accessing critical 
speech services like social media. We hope to work with the 
committee as the bill moves forward.
    Third, age assurance creates significant privacy risks that 
should be mitigated in legislation. Age verification and 
assurance raise significant concerns for all users' rights. To 
name just two, age-assurance techniques mean either more 
collection or more processing of sensitive data, leading to 
increased risks of data breaches which could include people's 
IDs or biometric information. Age assurance also chills online 
engagement with sensitive topics that people want to keep 
private.
    These concerns are not theoretical. Researchers at Georgia 
Tech have a forthcoming study demonstrating that the privacy 
and security concerns related to the use of age-assurance 
techniques are playing out in realtime, with increased risks 
for end users.
    If Congress nevertheless feels obligated to impose age-
assurance requirements, it should mitigate the risks by 
requiring the highest levels of privacy guardrails, including 
data minimization, deletion, reliance on high-quality data 
transparency and accountability.
    Fourth, creating good policy requires taking into account 
the perspectives of minors and their caregivers. CDT has 
conducted research asking a sample of teens and their parents 
about features of current child safety proposals.
    To give just two salient examples of their views: First, 
parents and teens expressed safety and privacy concerns with 
subjecting minors to age-assurance methods, preferring parent-
centered approaches that enable parents to declare their 
children's age.
    Second, we found that teens preferred algorithmic 
recommendations. Teens trust these feeds precisely because they 
feel that they are in control of that content.
    Knowing what parents and minors want and how they currently 
navigate their online lives will improve policymaking at both 
companies and in legislatures.
    Finally, Congress must not unduly restrict States' ability 
to act. Many of the bills at issue today would preempt State 
laws and regulations that simply relate to the provisions in 
the bills. We are concerned that the ``relates to'' standard 
will broadly preempt many existing State laws and emerging 
legislation that provide significant protections to children 
online, even if State law would provide better protections for 
kids.
    To make matters worse, public reporting indicates that 
Congress may be negotiating a deal to pair a kids' safety 
package with the controversial provision preempting State laws 
on artificial intelligence. It would be ill-advised to broadly 
preempt States' ability to enact laws related to AI's impact 
without putting in place strong Federal protections at least 
equal in scope to any such preemption.
    Thank you for the opportunity to testify, and I look 
forward to your questions.1A\1\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \1\ Ms. Ruane's prepared statement has been retained in committee 
files and is available at https://docs.house.gov/meetings/IF/IF17/
20251202/118714/HHRG-119-IF17-Wstate-RuaneK-20251202.pdf.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Mr. Bilirakis. Thank you very much. We appreciate that.
    Now I will recognize Mr. Thayer for your 5 minutes.

                    STATEMENT OF JOEL THAYER

    Mr. Thayer. Chairman Bilirakis, Ranking Member Schakowsky, 
and members of this esteemed committee, thank you for holding 
this incredibly important hearing to advance legislative 
solutions that ensures the health and safety of kids online.
    I am Joel Thayer. I am a practicing attorney, and I sit as 
president of the Digital Progress Institute, a think tank 
dedicated to finding bipartisan solutions in the tech and 
telecom policy spaces.
    Finding political consensus on incremental solutions to 
today's acute concerns in tech policy is at the core of our 
advocacy. Indeed, some of the bills before you today are based 
off of frameworks we helped develop.
    This hearing, coupled with its bevy of bills, makes a few 
things abundantly clear.
    First, we care about our children and their wellbeing, on 
and off their devices.
    Second, we are no longer satisfied with the status quo.
    In so many ways, today's youth are robbed of their 
innocence far more easily than ever before. This is thanks to 
the ubiquity of mobile devices and the services they host. 
Large tech platforms are inundating kids with lewd and 
lascivious exhibitions and even connecting them to child 
predators. This is well-documented. Senator Marsha Blackburn 
even went as far as describing Instagram as the ``premier sex-
trafficking site in this country.''
    Despite what the tech companies trumpet in their press 
releases, parents are left with almost no resources to combat 
their encroachments.
    Worse, tech companies are, in fact, perpetuating the 
problem. Herein lies the rub. Big Tech's form of child 
exploitation pays very well. Our children are not only Big 
Tech's users but are also their product. Meta specifically 
targets young users and even places a monetary value of $270 on 
each child's head.
    But the issue is worse still. Children are not only feeding 
Big Tech algorithms to sell to advertisers but are also used to 
inform their respective AI programs--AI programs like chatbots 
that have already resulted in some child deaths by encouraging 
kids to commit suicide.
    At DPI, we are all for winning the AI war, but we do not 
believe children should serve as its casualties. It is why 
measures you are considering today are so essential to both 
ensuring that we remain dominant in the AI race and we protect 
our most vulnerable: our children.
    However, we cannot ignore the long road ahead to get these 
passed. Big Tech's lobby is not only fierce but also 
unrelenting. They mire the validities of these solutions by 
instilling fears of consumers forfeiting privacy and the 
stifling of speech. But this is all a farce.
    As to privacy, I say consider the source. Courts, 
regulators, and consumers have found every one of these 
companies to have violated their users' personal privacy.
    Take Apple, for instance, that proclaims your privacy is a 
``fundamental human right.'' Discovery from a class action 
lawsuit, however, reveals that since October 2011 Apple had 
routinely recorded users' private conversations without their 
consent and disclosed those conversations to third parties, 
such as advertisers. Some of these disclosures included private 
conversations with their doctors. So much for privacy being a 
human right.
    One of Google's privacy violations was so egregious that 
the Federal Trade Commission created a first-of-its-kind 
settlement requiring Google to implement a comprehensive 
privacy program that it unbelievably didn't already have.
    Social media companies do not fare much better. Again, an 
FTC report found that social media companies like Snap, Meta, 
and TikTok have all engaged in vast surveillance of users, with 
lax privacy controls and inadequate safeguards for kids and 
teens. Point being, these companies are hardly an authority on 
proper privacy hygienics.
    As to free speech, I stand on the shoulders of Third 
Circuit Judge Paul Matey, who poignantly stated that Big Tech 
``smuggles constitutional conceptions of a `free trade in 
ideas' into a digital cauldron of illicit loves that leap and 
boil with no oversight, no accountability, and no remedy.''
    And it is true. Big Tech has leveraged the admittedly messy 
First Amendment jurisprudence to turn our bulwark for free 
expression into a sword to cut down laws they frankly don't 
like.
    But here is the good news. The Supreme Court has created a 
clear pathway for these measures. To start, in TikTok v. 
Garland, the Supreme Court categorically rejected TikTok's 
argument that the mere regulation of an algorithm raises First 
Amendment scrutiny. Even better, the Court clarified that a law 
regulating a tech platform doesn't invite First Amendment 
review if the law's primary justification is not content-based, 
even if its ancillary justifications are.
    In sum, the bills before us today, particularly the App 
Store Accountability Act, the SCREEN Act, and the Kids Online 
Safety Act, have taken these considerations into account and 
are poised to resolve many of the challenges parents are facing 
in today's digital age with respect to child safety.
    With that, I appreciate the committee's time for inviting 
me to testify, and I look forward to all of your questions and 
working with you further.
    [The prepared statement of Mr. Thayer follows:]
   [GRAPHIC NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    
    Mr. Bilirakis. Thank you so much.
    Now I will begin the questioning and recognize myself for 5 
minutes.
    Mr. Berkman, for too long the narrative has been that 
online safety is solely parents' responsibility. But, as you 
know, 80 percent of parents say that harms now outweigh the 
benefits and they feel completely outmatched by these highly 
complex platforms designed to keep their kids hooked.
    My bill, the Kids Online Safety Act--again, it is a 
discussion draft--fundamentally flips this dynamic. We require 
platforms to enable the strongest safeguards by default, rather 
than forcing parents to dig through multilayered menus to find 
these critical tools.
    Can you explain why shifting the burden of safety from the 
parent to the platform can change the trajectory of this dire 
safety crisis?
    Mr. Berkman. Thank you for the question, Chairman, and I 
think it is a very apt one. You are correct that parents across 
the country are frustrated, they are saddened, and they feel 
defeated.
    We work with hundreds of thousands of families, partnering 
with K-through-12 schools, teaching essential social media 
safety skills. And so we can hear from families on the ground 
nationwide.
    Children are using multiple platforms many hours a day with 
many different features, and they are not set to be safe, by 
design. And so we do believe that the provisions you have put 
forward in your legislation would materially move safety 
forward and ensure that parents are not battling for their 
children's safety alone.
    And I would note Sammy's Law, as well, would give parents 
one unified tool to help maximize safety. And so that is why we 
support that bill.
    Mr. Bilirakis. Thank you very much.
    Mr. Thayer, in your testimony you state that KOSA, along 
with many of the other bills considered today, will resolve 
many of the challenges parents are facing in today's digital 
age with respect to child safety.
    KOSA includes numerous other protections such as parental 
controls, default settings, policies to address design 
features, and mandatory audits.
    Can you explain how KOSA will empower parents to protect 
their kids online and will hold Big Tech accountable?
    Mr. Thayer. Well, you took the word right out of my mouth. 
The keyword there is ``accountability.'' And right now there is 
absolutely none.
    At this point, we have to rely basically on their musings 
via press releases and other terms of service that we hope they 
will adhere to. And we have actual data to support that. At 
this time, TikTok, Meta, and the like all have so-called 
parental protections, and they all have failed miserably.
    The problem is that there are, frankly, no laws that 
actually articulate what their goals are and what they are 
responsible for. Things like KOSA, which I prefer over more 
general statutes, articulate clearly what these companies are 
responsible for doing and when they run afoul of those 
responsibilities and when we can enforce.
    At this point, they have no Sword of Damocles over their 
head, and even if they did, we wouldn't be able to cut it down 
to get the results that we need to protect kids and protect 
parents.
    So KOSA would go a long way in ensuring that the status quo 
is not going to be the status quo forever.
    Mr. Bilirakis. Thank you very much.
    Mr. Lekas, in your testimony you call for online tools that 
empower children, teens, and families. In your view, are KOSA's 
requirements for platforms to implement new safeguards and 
parental controls workable?
    Mr. Lekas. Thank you for that question.
    In our sense--and we are still reviewing this with our 
members, but--the tools that would be required under KOSA are 
definitely workable. There's a number of companies that have 
implemented some of these tools already, but we need them to be 
implemented across the board. We need to protect all children 
on all platforms.
    The other thing I would say about KOSA is the requirements 
to establish procedures and processes and so forth seem really 
well designed to address the constitutional concerns that have 
come up with respect to earlier drafts of this legislation.
    Mr. Bilirakis. Very good. Thank you very much.
    I will yield back.
    And I will recognize now the ranking member of the 
subcommittee, Ms. Schakowsky, for her 5 minutes of questioning.
    Ms. Schakowsky. OK.
    Ms. Ruane, I wanted to ask you, what is the biggest gap 
that you see right now, that if we were to begin right now to 
fix it, what do you think is the biggest gap that we are 
encountering?
    Ms. Ruane. Thank you, Representative Schakowsky, for the 
question.
    I see a number of gaps that would be left by the 
legislation. Even with the 19 bills, I see a number of gaps 
that would be left.
    The biggest one that I see is the preemption standard that 
is within all of the bills that are currently before the 
committee. We are concerned that the ``relates to'' preemption 
standard will preempt State laws that specifically protect kids 
and also State laws that have general protections that also 
apply to children, so State UDAP laws, State tort laws, and 
also State comprehensive privacy laws that have specific 
protections for children, including enhanced protections for 
children's data as sensitive data.
    Texas, for example, protects all children's data as 
sensitive data at a higher standard than the current COPPA 
does. The current preemption standard under the bills that we 
are considering today would likely preempt that law as applied 
to kids.
    If we finish this process with the ``relates to'' standard 
in place, you will likely wind up with children having less 
protections at the State level than they do today, and we will 
have failed to do our jobs.
    So I think that is one of the biggest gaps that I see.
    I also see that there is not enough--in any of the bills 
that require age verification, we do not see sufficient 
guardrails to protect and require privacy and security 
practices within the age-assurance requirements and to ensure 
that any age-assurance techniques that are used are fairly and 
equitably accessible to everyone that has to go through the 
age-assurance process.
    Ms. Schakowsky. You know, when I listen to you, I think 
there are so many things that need to be changed as soon as 
possible, and the idea that the States cannot do anything in 
the legislation is quite shocking to me. And so I just really 
think that we have to go back to the drawing board and make 
sure that we know.
    The other thing I wanted to ask you is about LGBTQ kids and 
making sure that they have some authority to be there, to be 
heard. And I wonder if you could comment on that.
    Ms. Ruane. Absolutely. Thank you for the question, Ranking 
Member.
    We are significantly concerned that any censorship 
incentives within some of the bills that are before us today 
and within the Senate's version of KOSA could lead to the 
censorship of LGBTQ speech--access to that content by LGBTQ 
kids and speech by LGBTQ kids, because oftentimes that speech 
can be miscategorized as sexual speech or as speech that falls 
into categories that platforms look to take down because they 
are concerned about enforcement and about harms to children 
related to accessing sexualized content.
    Our second concern with respect to that is that the bills 
at issue today delegate authority, enforcement authority, to 
this current FTC, which has demonstrated its willingness to 
target groups that it disfavors, including transgender 
families--including transgender people, their families, and 
their caregivers.
    If we do not have an independent FTC that is enforcing the 
law fairly as it applies to all children and protects all 
children, we have significant concerns about how these bills 
would operate in practice, even if the way that they are 
currently constituted is neutral and would protect everyone.
    Ms. Schakowsky. So appreciated.
    And, with that, I yield back. Thank you.
    Mr. Bilirakis. The gentlelady yields back.
    I now recognize the chairman of the full committee, Mr. 
Guthrie, for his 5 minutes of questioning.
    Mr. Guthrie. Thank you. I appreciate that.
    And thank you all for being here.
    So, Mr. Berkman, there is no single solution for protecting 
kids online, and that is why we are advancing a comprehensive 
strategy of nearly two dozen bills that build in layers of 
protection, from age verification in COPPA 2.0 privacy 
protections to parental tools and default by design.
    Can you speak to the urgency of this moment and the need 
for Congress to protect kids and children and teens online?
    Mr. Berkman. Yes. I appreciate the question.
    We are seeing, still, an alarming disconnect in terms of 
awareness of how severe and pervasive the harms of social media 
are. We are seeing millions of children across the country 
harmed. We are on the ground, working with families, and the 
actual data is absolutely stunning and the stories are 
heartbreaking.
    And so I appreciate the approach taken by the committee. We 
need to find consensus and pass meaningful social media safety 
legislation this year to protect our children.
    Mr. Guthrie. Thank you.
    And to add to that, Mr. Lekas and Mr. Thayer, can you 
explain why we need a layered, comprehensive strategy rather 
than just one single bill?
    Mr. Thayer. I thank you for the question. And I think the 
question sort of beckons the answer, is that individual layers 
require different policy solutions. The same thing that would 
apply to a social media company may not be apropos to maybe 
something on the app store layer, even the operating system 
layer or device layer. Each one of these folks have a role to 
play--or, each actor has a role to play, and every policy 
solution should be attuned to what those particular roles are.
    So a comprehensive approach, whether it is privacy, 
competition, or even child safety, has to be administratively 
thought through. So, again, in full agreement with what I have 
heard today. And it seems to be the case that each individual 
layer requires a special sensitivity to what those particular 
areas do and needs a policy solution that meets them where they 
are.
    Mr. Guthrie. Good. Thank you.
    Mr. Lekas?
    Mr. Lekas. Thank you for that question.
    I think the overall goal that seems to be the consensus of 
everyone in this room is, we need to protect youth online. We 
need to improve the privacy protections and the safety 
protections for youth.
    And I think stepping back and looking at all the different 
components here and trying to identify what is the best way to 
do each of these components is a really smart way to proceed. 
Congress has been debating legislation in this space for years, 
and it is urgent to move forward now. So we appreciate the 
approach taken by the committee.
    Mr. Guthrie. Thank you.
    And, also, Mr. Thayer, in my opening statement I emphasized 
that a law that gets struck down by courts won't protect a 
single child.
    From a legal and constitutional perspective, why is it so 
critical that Congress can step in to establish a single, 
uniform national standard? And how does this package of bills 
learn from the defects of laws that have failed judicial 
review?
    Mr. Thayer. Well, as someone that really does appreciate 
the structure of our Constitution and especially the Federal 
structure that they have created and, again, leveraging the 
insights from different Justices, much smarter legal minds than 
my own--Justice Brandeis, for instance, said that the States 
are the laboratories of our democracy. But, at the same time, 
those laboratories yield results.
    And I think what we have seen in the past 10 years, absent 
Federal insight as to what Congress actually wants or what the 
national standard is, has allowed for a lot of these 
experiments to go all the way through the courts. The courts 
have evaluated each one of these standards and have given, as I 
said in my opening testimony, a pathway for Congress to 
actually set those standards.
    Because part of that experiment is not just only seeing 
where Congress can step in, it is seeing the limitations that 
States have in fully protecting children. A child in Texas 
should be equally protected as a child in California or in Iowa 
and everywhere else. And that is where I think the Federal 
standard is probably preferable in many cases. But, again, that 
comes from a lot of the insights that we are getting from 
States.
    Mr. Guthrie. OK. Thank you.
    And that concludes my questions. I yield back.
    Mr. Bilirakis. The gentleman yields back.
    I now recognize the ranking member of the full committee, 
Mr. Pallone, for his 5 minutes of questioning.
    Mr. Pallone. Thank you, Chairman Bilirakis.
    Data brokers collect and sell billions of data points on 
nearly every consumer in the United States, including children. 
And while I believe that comprehensive privacy is the preferred 
path to addressing the risk of data brokers, I also believe it 
is imperative to do what we can now to prevent data brokers 
from exploiting the personal data of our kids.
    So I have a series of questions for Ms. Ruane. If you could 
just answer them quickly, because otherwise I won't get through 
them.
    First is, why is it so important that kids and teens are 
able to enter adulthood without an extensive profile already 
built of their online activities and inferences about who they 
are?
    Ms. Ruane. Thank you, Ranking Member.
    Well, kids are growing up online, right? They are sharing 
all of their information all of the time. They are engaging 
constantly. And their data is also being collected constantly, 
in ways that they might not understand or even be aware of or 
be developmentally capable of making decisions about. They 
don't know they are making a trail that is going to follow them 
forever.
    But what is most important is that children are not 
commodities, and their lives and privacy have to be respected. 
Ensuring that their information cannot be bought and sold by 
shady data brokers will meaningfully protect their privacy in 
general and their ability to enter adulthood without a profile 
that will follow them for the rest of time.
    Mr. Pallone. Well, thank you.
    Now, many of the bills being considered for this hearing 
today contain broad preemption clauses, and in many cases 
preempting any State laws that relate to the legislation.
    So the next question is, What are some unintended 
consequences of such broad preemption? Could common law and 
product liability claims currently being used to hold tech 
companies accountable be impacted by that?
    Ms. Ruane. Yes, absolutely. We are concerned that currently 
extant State protections that protect everyone will no longer 
be able to protect children across all 50 States.
    One other thing to note is, a lot of the bills today focus 
on legacy platforms and services that have existed for a while, 
and they do not focus on emerging technologies like generative 
AI. If we institute a broad ``relates to'' preemption standard 
across all of these bills, we run the risk of preempting 
States' ability to act on emerging technologies quickly.
    Mr. Pallone. OK.
    Many of the bills being discussed today also have 
provisions that expand access to the data of teens, both to 
third parties and to parents, in the name of increased safety. 
And while I encourage parents and teens to have conversation 
about teens' online activity, that also needs to be balanced 
against teens' rights to privacy.
    So, as we consider the bills before us, how do we best 
balance privacy and safety? Are there any specific provisions 
in these bills that pose a threat to kids' privacy?
    Ms. Ruane. Absolutely. Parents and kids, families, need 
tools to help them navigate their online lives, and CDT fully 
supports giving parents those tools and children those tools, 
but we are concerned about any provisions that give parents 
access to and control over the content of kids' communications.
    One thing that the current version of KOSA does well is it 
ensures that platforms do not have to disclose the contents of 
kids' communication. But today's new version of COPPA 2.0, for 
example, contains language that might allow parents to delete 
their kids' data and to delete content that they may have 
created.
    When we talk to parents and kids about whether they wanted 
to have those sorts of tools, parents told us that that seemed 
overly burdensome for parents, and kids told us that seemed 
overly invasive to them.
    Moreover, as you noted in your opening statement, not all 
kids are growing up in families that are perfectly supportive, 
and some kids are growing up in situations where they don't 
have families at all.
    Mr. Pallone. Well, that is sort of my last question----
    Ms. Ruane. Yes.
    Mr. Pallone [continuing]. Because I know we're going to run 
out of time. But the unfortunate reality is that there are 
parents who abuse and neglect their children. For these kids, 
access to safe spaces online can be critical.
    So the last question is, how do we foster healthy 
connections online while ensuring that kids and teens are 
protected? Are there potential risks to children and teens in 
dangerous or hostile family environments caused by the measures 
in these bills?
    Ms. Ruane. Well, when we talked to teenagers about how they 
use, for example, direct messaging services, they told us that 
what they really want are more controls over who gets to 
message them--so the ability to reduce their own visibility 
online. Congress could also incentivize more friction or speed 
bumps in interaction with, kind of, unknown profiles or unknown 
adults.
    We also took note that one of the bills today would 
restrict access to ephemeral messaging. Now, while it is 
understandable that in some circumstances ephemeral messaging 
could be linked to harm, we also want to note that it could 
also be used to protect kids' privacy.
    So, for example, children might communicate with each 
other, teens might communicate with each other through racy 
text messages. Ephemeral messaging could reduce the likelihood 
that those messages be used for abusive purposes like 
nonconsensual intimate image distribution at a later date.
    Ephemeral messages could also be helpful for children who 
have relationships with domestic violence victims or who are 
domestic violence victims themselves to ensure safety and to 
ensure their ability to communicate privately without risk to 
their physical selves.
    Mr. Pallone. Thank you.
    Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    Mr. Bilirakis. Thank you very much.
    And the gentleman yields back.
    We will recognize the vice chairman of the subcommittee, 
Mr. Fulcher, for his 5 minutes of questioning.
    Mr. Fulcher. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    A question for Mr. Berkman. This has to do with 
recommendations you might have for young adults who are 
engaging with some self-harming behavior.
    In your testimony, you cite some statistics having to do 
with self-harm, cyberbullying, with eating disorders, and--and 
that particular topic. And we have also learned through various 
court filings that social media companies have been knowing 
about this. They know this is going on.
    Not long ago, we had some hearings with TikTok, and we 
learned that they had sent 13-year-olds even more content on 
self-harm and with eating disorders. And that came out also 
that Meta had pushed body-image content when teens had 
expressed some dissatisfaction with their bodies. So these 
social media companies, they know about this.
    And I dealt with this in a previous life as a State 
legislator, with some mental health issues.
    And I just want to ask you, from your perspective, what 
recommendations or guidelines can you offer for this body here 
to address this growing problem?
    Mr. Berkman. Thank you, Congressman, for the question, and 
I appreciate it.
    It is true and something we really need to recognize across 
this country that these companies have a durable inherent 
conflict of interest between our children's safety and their 
profits. And so, last decade, we have seen child harmed after 
child harmed. And so one of the bills that we really support 
here is a bill called Sammy's Law, and that would give parents, 
families access to what we call third-party safety software--
software not connected to the social media platforms 
themselves--that can provide families with critical lifesaving 
alerts, like eating disorder-related content, content involving 
suicidal ideation, so that families can provide lifesaving 
support at the exact right critical moment, which right now 
they are not getting, and because of that we are seeing 
fatalities.
    Mr. Fulcher. So engagement with the parents, and that 
third-party software is a help.
    Mr. Berkman. Third-party software, and I would note, is 
significantly--it adds to privacy in a significant way over the 
status quo. This is technology that we now have that can limit 
alerts to parents on a list of harms that every Member of this 
body agrees on and that children vitally need support to 
protect themselves from.
    Mr. Fulcher. Thank you for that. I am going to come back to 
you here in just a second, but I want to get a question to Mr. 
Thayer here.
    We really need real consequences for bad actors and the 
enforcement that goes with it. In all the bills we consider 
here today, they place regulatory obligations on tech platforms 
and include both FTC's first fine authority and authorizes 
State attorneys general to engage with this.
    First of all, do you see that as adequate, and can you 
discuss the benefits of these enforcement tools and how they 
will actually be used to hold some of these tech firms 
accountable?
    Mr. Thayer. Yes, our DPS position is the more cops on the 
beat, the better. State attorney generals have a very special 
role when it comes to consumer protection, as does the FTC. I 
think one value of these bills is that they are specific 
authority statutes as opposed to general authority statutes, 
which means you can target the specific harms on both the 
Federal and the State level on exactly what they want.
    And in terms of combining the two, you have the FTC, which 
has a giant remit already--they have a national remit--whereas 
State attorney generals can react almost in real time or, if 
not, very close to, to the local issues that have--that they 
can observe.
    So I work very closely with State attorney generals' 
offices in California, Texas, and Louisiana, and I can tell you 
that they look at these statutes and they--they look at these 
statutes in a very comprehensive way, and they also look at it 
from the perspective of protecting their populations in 
particular.
    So, again, in my view, you need both. You can't just have--
put all the reliance on the FTC. You are going to need some 
State attorney generals looking at this as well.
    Mr. Fulcher. Great. Thank you.
    Mr. Berkman, I have got 20 seconds left. Any input on that?
    Mr. Berkman. Yes, we agree you need a robust enforcement 
regime. State attorneys general kind of added to that regime. 
We have leadership across the country from Mississippi, 
Illinois, Arkansas, and California attorneys general 
prosecuting in an effective way violations of law by the social 
media industry that is impacting children. They are doing it 
collaboratively, which means pooled resources, that means 
effective enforcement, that means saved lives.
    Mr. Fulcher. Great. Thank you, Mr. Berkman.
    And, Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
    Mr. Bilirakis. The gentleman yields back.
    Now recognize Ms. Castor from the great State of Florida. 
You are recognized for 5 minutes of questioning.
    Ms. Castor. Well, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for 
teeing up action to address the privacy, intrusion, 
surveillance, and targeting of kids online and the growing 
harms due to the malign design of online apps that lead to 
physical and mental harm to young people.
    I want to thank the witnesses, but the panel is missing a 
parent. There are many here today who could have testified. You 
are missing a young person. There are other young people here 
who could have testified. You are missing a psychologist or a 
pediatrician. And one of the many whistleblowers, former tech 
company employees, to testify on the insidious schemes to 
addict and exploit children even as tech company executives 
knew of the harm to kids.
    It was 2021 when Francis Haugen, the Facebook 
whistleblower, testified before Congress that Facebook Meta 
built a business model that prioritizes its profit over the 
safety of its users. She said Facebook repeatedly encountered 
conflicts between its own profits and safety and that Facebook 
consistently resolved those conflicts in favor of its own 
profits. She went on to testify that Facebook became a 
trillion-dollar company by paying for its profits with our 
safety, including the safety of our children. Doesn't this 
remind you of the tobacco company propaganda of years ago?
    This committee knows too well that the big tech companies 
take advantage of young people online. That is why it is so 
disappointing that Republicans in the House are offering weak, 
ineffectual versions of COPPA and KOSA. These versions are a 
gift to the big tech companies and they are a slap in the face 
to the parents, the experts, and the advocates, to bipartisan 
Members of Congress, who have worked long and hard on strong 
child protection bills to protect them from what is happening 
online.
    So despite a broad agreement among House Members and Senate 
Members, we really need to address these watered-down bills, 
and I am hoping that the rank-and-file membership and the 
members of this committee will chart that course. For example, 
we should not put a ceiling on kids' protections at the State 
level or stifle the good work of the States or weaken knowledge 
standards that are critical to holding tech companies 
accountable.
    Ms. Ruane, you have already addressed preemption. You said 
a lot of the preemption language in the bills would provide 
less protection to kids. You have touched on weaker 
enforcement. That is contained here. You talked about data 
minimization.
    How does--there is now a difference in the knowledge 
standards too. The Senate versions are kind of viewed as the 
strong bipartisan versions. How does the Senate knowledge 
standard further protect young people compared to what is in 
the House version?
    Ms. Ruane. Thank you, Representative Castor. Yes, there is 
a difference in the knowledge standard in the bills at issue 
today. Particularly in COPPA 2.0, we see a tiered knowledge 
standard that preserves actual knowledge for the vast majority 
of actors, and that is, you know, basically preserving or 
maintaining the status quo. The Senate version of COPPA 2.0 has 
an updated knowledge standard, which would apply to all actors. 
Honestly, this is a difficult balance to strike, but the hope 
is to land on a standard that does not permit a company to look 
the other way when they know there are kids on their service, 
while avoiding incentivizing broad age assurance across the 
entire internet.
    While we think there needs to be changes to House COPPA, we 
fully support enhancing protections for children's privacy, and 
we hope that we can all work together to update COPPA 2.0 in a 
way that would do so.
    Ms. Castor. Thank you for that. Do you want to say anything 
else about enforcement as well? You already talked a little bit 
about the FTC, but when we are talking about kids, isn't it 
appropriate to have a number of tools in the toolbox to make 
sure they are safe and tech is held accountable?
    Ms. Ruane. Absolutely. It is not just appropriate, it is 
also how Congress has approached protecting children 
historically. Congress has generally not chosen to preempt 
States' ability to act and has always ensured that there are 
more tools in the toolbox. It was good to hear and it is good 
to see that the FTC would have things like first fine authority 
and that State attorneys general would have the ability to act, 
but we also need to see things like private rights of action as 
a force multiplier for families and kids to be able to enforce 
their rights under any statute that Congress passes.
    Ms. Castor. Thank you for that.
    I also want to make sure that I get into the record a 
number of provisions. Mr. Chairman, at the end of the hearing, 
we will have a number of documents to submit for the record, a 
lot of letters from groups: the Federal Trade Commission 
September 2024 report that I recommend to the committee, the--
some of the whistleblower testimony from the United States 
Senate that is very illuminating, some of the other reports 
from various medical societies. I think all of this would 
really inform our decision making as we move forward.
    Mr. Bilirakis. Thank you.
    Ms. Castor. And I will ask unanimous consent at the 
appropriate time.
    Mr. Bilirakis. Absolutely.
    All right. Now we will recognize Dr. Dunn. He is the vice 
chair of the full committee. We will recognize you for 5 
minutes, sir, for your questions.
    Mr. Dunn. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
    I have been fortunate to wear a lot of hats in my life. I 
was a soldier. I served my community as a sergeant for 35 
years. But the title that keeps me up at night, that drives me, 
is granddad. My sixth grandchild was born yesterday, as you 
know, Gus. I made it look easy.
    But we are living through a crisis right now. We have 
handed our children devices that are more powerful than the 
most powerful computers, sent men to the moon, but we failed to 
install the digital equivalent of seatbelts and smoke detectors 
on these things.
    As a doctor, I see--when I see a patient bleeding, I just 
apply a tourniquet. I don't call a committee meeting. Right now 
our children are bleeding. Our children and our grandchildren 
are being targeted, groomed, and exploited on social media 
platforms that are designed--intentionally designed--to hide 
the evidence of their exploitation.
    That is why I introduced H.R. 6257, the Safe Messaging Act 
for Kids, call it SMK Act of 2025. This bill is a direct 
intervention to stop two specific mechanisms that predators use 
to hunt our children: ephemeral messaging and unsolicited 
contact. The problem is disappearing evidence.
    Let's talk about ephemeral messaging. This is a fancy term 
for a dangerous feature that messages automatically delete 
themselves after they are viewed. Imagine if a drug dealer 
could sell fentanyl to a teenager in a school hallway, and then 
the moment the transaction is done, any security camera footage 
automatically erased itself. That is what is happening online.
    Predators love ephemeral messaging. It is their best 
friend. It destroys any evidence of grooming, cyberbullying, 
illicit transactions before a parent ever sees it and before 
law enforcement can build a case. My bill would put an end to 
this.
    Under section 3 of the SMK Act, social media platforms 
would be strictly prohibited from offering ephemeral messaging 
to any user they know or willfully disregard is a minor under 
17. If you are a tech company and you know your user is a 14-
year-old child, you should not be handing them a tool to 
destroy evidence. It is that simple. The solution is, of 
course, parental authority.
    The second part of this bill is unsolicited contact. Right 
now in the digital world, strangers can walk up to our children 
and whisper in their ear. We would never allow that on a 
playground. Why do we allow it in direct messages? The SMK Act 
mandates parental direct messaging controls. We are putting 
parents back in the driver's seat.
    For children under 13, the bill requires the direct 
messaging features be disabled by default. A 10-year-old should 
not be fielding messages from strangers. If that feature is to 
be turned on, a parent must proactively give verifiable 
consent. For teenagers under 17, parents have to have the tools 
to see who is knocking on the door.
    The bill requires platforms to notify parents of requests 
for unapproved contacts and gives the parents the power to 
approve or deny those requests before any messaging occurs. 
This isn't about hovering. This isn't helicopter parenting. It 
is just about parenting. It is about giving moms and dads the 
dashboard they need to keep kids safe.
    Mr. Chairman, in medicine, you know, we take an oath: Do no 
harm. For too long we have allowed social media platforms to 
violate that oath, and they have built features that harm our 
children, drive engagement by our children. The Safe Messaging 
Act for Kids is a commonsense, you know, treatment plan for 
this, and it preserves the evidence of crimes, it restores 
parental authority that protects our kids, and I urge my 
colleagues to support this legislation.
    I will submit questions for the panel. Sorry I have used up 
my time, but I wanted to make a case for this.
    Thank you so much, Mr. Chairman.
    Mr. Fulcher [presiding]. Thank you.
    The gentleman from Florida, Mr. Soto, is recognized for 5 
minutes.
    Mr. Soto. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    Today we are here to empower parents to protect kids 
online, and Congress needs to do its job and make rules of the 
road. It has been 5 years since the Children's Online Safety 
Act has been filed--5 years too long to address this critical 
issue.
    When we look at the internet and social media, we see 
education, entertainment, communication with friends--all great 
things for kids. But we also see a quagmire of issues that they 
could fall into, which is why we need guardrails to protect 
children's privacy, stop access to adult content, unbridled 
chatbots, even predators online.
    So today we have 19 bills, including our bipartisan 
Promoting a Safe Internet for Minors Act with Representative 
Laurel Lee, my fellow Floridian. H.R. 6289 directs the Federal 
Trade Commission to conduct nationwide education campaigns to 
promote safe internet use by minors, encouraging best practices 
for educators, parents, platforms, and minors, and sharing the 
latest trends about negatively impacting--that are negatively 
impacting minors online, and making publicly available online 
safety education.
    The only issue is we have an FTC where President Trump 
fired both the Democrats, and now there are only three out of 
the full five strength that they need, and the courts have been 
taking their sweet time to address this issue. And so it is 
critical that we as a committee make sure we get the FTC up to 
strength and hold the President accountable for this unlawful 
action.
    We also need to limit kids' access to chatbots. We saw a 
tragic story from Central Florida--of Sewell Setzer III's 
story, a ninth-grader from Orlando Christian Prep. He died by 
suicide last year at age 14 after being prompted by a chatbot 
that he was listening to. Sewell's mother, Megan Garcia, 
testified in the Senate Judiciary Committee in September of 
this year. In her testimony she described how Sewell was 
manipulated by the chatbot and sent sexually explicit material. 
She has filed a wrongful death suit--lawsuit.
    This is why bills like the SAFE Bots Act that we see which 
would develop AI policies to prevent harm, AI disclosure 
prohibiting them from posing as licensed professionals, and 
then enforcement's key, the FTC, which we need to fully restore 
to its full strength, and State attorneys general.
    And then back in Florida we see new laws that restrict use 
under 14 years of age, parental consent 14 and 15 years of age, 
and it was just recently upheld on appeal. And lastly, we are 
working with local sheriffs like the Osceola County Sheriff's 
Office to get the millions in funding to protect kids online 
with the Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force, 
absolutely critical for our local kids.
    Ms. Ruane, we saw President Trump illegally fire two of the 
Democratic members of the FTC. Even with all these bills that 
we have filed, even if they pass, how does the decimation of 
the FTC affect enforcement of laws meant to protect kids 
online?
    Ms. Ruane. Thank you, Representative Soto. So the FTC has 
historically had--as an independent agency, has historically 
had a reputation of protecting consumers regardless of the 
party in office. The current administration is undermining that 
reputation and threatening the FTC's ability to enforce the law 
fairly.
    If--I say this in my testimony, but I will say it here 
again: Laws are only as good as their enforcement mechanisms. 
They are only as good and fair as their enforcers. Laws without 
good enforcement are, at best, just words on the page, but at 
worst they are weapons to be used by the powerful against the 
powerless. And the worry with the FTC becoming a politicized 
institution is that, rather than enforcing the laws to protect 
everyone and uphold the rule of law, it will instead become a 
partisan tool that could be used and weaponized against those 
that the administration, whoever occupies the office, dislikes 
or, on the other hand, favors.
    If, for example, you know, the President has a particular 
relationship with a particular company or a particular CEO, we 
are concerned that the politicization of an FTC could lead to 
favorable treatment and lack of enforcement of laws against 
those companies and, on the other side, targeting or 
retribution against those who would----
    Mr. Soto. Thank you, Ms. Ruane.
    Mr. Thayer, we talked a little bit about bots being out of 
control. What rules really do we need to help make sure we 
protect our kids?
    Mr. Thayer. Thank you, Congressman. Look, we are going to 
need a lot. I mean, the rate at which this adoption is 
happening is unlike anything that we have ever seen, even with 
respect to social media and particularly when it comes to kids. 
Kids are now using chatbots for everything under the sun, 
whether it is----
    Mr. Fulcher. Mr. Thayer, time has expired. If you could 
wrap really quick, please.
    Mr. Thayer. Sure. In general, solutions that you guys have 
proposed today can go a long way. Also, what Senator Hawley has 
introduced is another interesting avenue, along with Senator 
Blumenthal. So I look forward to working with you and your 
office on this.
    Mr. Fulcher. Thank you for that. Time has expired.
    The Chair recognizes the gentlelady from Florida, Mrs. 
Cammack, please.
    Mrs. Cammack. Well, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to 
our witnesses and for everyone in the audience here today.
    As a new mom, today's hearing certainly is hitting pretty 
close to home. Today we are reviewing 19 bills, but we are 
missing a critical one: the App Store Freedom Act. This bill 
would empower parents and consumers, foster innovation, and 
most importantly protect kids online and their data. This bill 
has broad bipartisan support on this committee and is a 
critical step in keeping kids safe online.
    I want folks to imagine for a moment what it would look 
like if parents--parents--were allowed to build an online 
marketplace, an app marketplace, where they could vet the apps 
and knew for sure that their kids were safe. Today that is not 
possible. And only our bill, the App Store Freedom Act, can do 
that.
    I would also like to point out for the record that last 
year alone, in 2024, the Apple App Store facilitated nearly 
$406 billion in sales. So taking that into consideration, the 
30 percent tax, no matter how you slice it that Apple requires 
of these apps and their subscriptions, is a multibillion-dollar 
industry. So it would stand to reason that Apple has a couple 
billion reasons why they don't want to protect kids online and 
they don't want parents creating their own marketplace.
    So I am going to jump to our questions. Panel, we are going 
to go rapid fire to start.
    In 2024, in my home State of Florida, 13- and 14-year-old 
boys were using nudify apps to take pictures of their 12-year-
old classmates and digitally unclothe them. The perpetrators--
because that is what they are--then shared those images with 
their classmates and others. Another investigation into Apple 
showed that it allowed a nudify app in its App Store and then 
rated it, Apple rated that app as appropriate for 4-year-olds. 
Four-year-olds.
    So for the panel, rapid fire. We will start with you, Mr. 
Berkman: Do you think that app stores should be allowed to have 
children accessing nudify apps, yes or no?
    Mr. Berkman. No.
    Mrs. Cammack. Mr. Lekas?
    Mr. Lekas. No.
    Ms. Ruane. No.
    Mr. Thayer. Hell no.
    Mrs. Cammack. Excellent. I like this rapid fire.
    For the panel, yes or no: Today Apple and Google profit by 
taking a 30 percent commission for sales of app subscriptions, 
apps that include the ability to nudify underage classmates.
    Is that acceptable, yes or no?
    Mr. Berkman. No.
    Mr. Lekas. I have no awareness of those facts. I can't 
speak to the question.
    Mrs. Cammack. Interesting.
    Yes or no?
    Ms. Ruane. I am not sure, but I think no, because----
    Mrs. Cammack. God, I would hope no.
    Mr. Thayer?
    Ms. Ruane. The question is whether they should profit off 
of nudify apps?
    Mrs. Cammack. Should they profit--should Apple and Google 
be profiting off of----
    Ms. Ruane. No. No, no one should profit off of nudify apps.
    Mrs. Cammack. I appreciate the clarity in your answer. 
Thank you.
    Mr. Thayer?
    Mr. Thayer. Again, hell no.
    Mrs. Cammack. No. I appreciate that.
    Now, I think we are all aware that there have been 
investigations into nudify apps being used by minors against 
fellow minors and also adults using these apps to nudify 
minors. This has been covered extensively through the BBC, FOX 
News, CNN, CNBC, and others.
    So, Mr. Thayer, Apple and Google have said that they are 
keeping kids safe online, but based on that track record that 
is well documented, do you think that Apple and Google are 
doing everything that they should to keep kids safe in the app 
store?
    Mr. Thayer. Not even the bare minimum.
    Mrs. Cammack. Perfect. Now as mentioned before, we have a 
bipartisan bill with many cosponsors on this committee that 
would stop Apple and Google from maintaining their app store 
monopoly, because that is, in fact, what they have. Often when 
we talk about monopolies, we focus on price gouging, but there 
are other good reasons why you would want to stop a monopoly 
from abusing their power, like speeding up innovation, 
improving quality, protecting kids, for example.
    So, Mr. Thayer, you recently signed a letter in support of 
our bill, the App Store Freedom Act. Thank you for that.
    It is not easy taking on the tech giants, is it?
    Mr. Thayer. As someone who has taken them on in every 
State, no.
    Mrs. Cammack. You can just keep your microphone on too.
    Mr. Thayer. OK.
    Mrs. Cammack. Now, could you----
    Mr. Thayer. Just point of clarification, I think we led 
that letter, so----
    Mrs. Cammack. Yes, you did. Thank you. Thank you for your 
leadership in that.
    Could you help the committee here understand how more 
competition keeps kids safe?
    Mr. Thayer. Well, it is pretty intuitive. So, I mean, more 
competition means more tools. More tools means more access for 
parents to use. So at the end of the day, competition is 
another area where we can actually increase parental controls 
and also incre--make privacy actually a thing that you have to 
fight for in the market.
    Right now, as you note, there is no free market in the app 
store market. There is no app--there is no--and there actually 
is no competition in the search market either. But I would like 
to quote one thing from an antitrust case that involved Apple 
at the Supreme Court.
    Mrs. Cammack. OK. Go fast.
    Mr. Thayer. This is Justice Kavanaugh: There is no 
intermediary in the distribution chain between Apple and the 
consumer. And they need to be held accountable.
    Mrs. Cammack. Mr. Thayer, I appreciate that. And I just 
want to end on this: Do you think that any monopoly, 
particularly those like Apple and Google, are in the best 
position to protect kids and their data?
    Mr. Fulcher. Make that a yes or a no. Time has expired.
    Mr. Thayer. Yes. But without--we need legislation to make 
sure they actually do what they say they are going to do, but 
the answer is kind of----
    Mrs. Cammack. A bit of the fox guarding the hen house?
    Mr. Thayer. Little bit.
    Mrs. Cammack. OK.
    Mr. Thayer. More than a little bit.
    Mr. Fulcher. Thank you. Time has expired.
    Mrs. Cammack. I appreciate that. I yield.
    Mr. Fulcher. The Chair recognizes the gentlelady from 
Massachusetts, Mrs. Trahan, for 5 minutes.
    Mrs. Trahan. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    Well, I don't think I need to belabor the points that my 
colleagues have correctly made about this hearing's policy and 
procedural failures. The flagship proposals for today's 
hearing, KOSA and COPPA 2.0, have been gutted and co-opted by 
Big Tech. And in their process of backroom dealmaking, 
committee leadership has shunned parents, advocates, and 
bipartisanship. I sincerely hope we can move past this to get 
meaningful, balanced kids safety legislation across the finish 
line, and I am here, as I always have been, to work with my 
colleagues on both sides of the aisle to achieve that.
    To that end, I do want to call attention to an area that is 
missing from this hearing's slate of kids safety measures: app 
store competition. App stores are the distributors of the 
software kids rely on to run their digital lives. Apple and 
Google control access to nearly all American smartphones, and 
Federal courts have already found that they hold monopoly power 
over those markets. They wield that dominance to block third-
party app stores while profiting from their own inadequate 
child safety practices.
    As a coalition of child safety organizations recently noted 
in a letter to the committee, quote, ``without meaningful 
competition, these firms have continually failed to protect 
children from sexual exploitation, exposure to obscenity, abuse 
of their data, and more,'' end quote. In the case of Apple, one 
of its engineers even said in private messages that it is, 
quote, ``the greatest platform for distributing child porn'' 
and called child predator grooming a, quote, ``underresourced 
challenge.''
    Mr. Thayer, in your testimony, you call out some of the 
specious arguments offered by Big Tech against practical 
solutions to improve kids' safety. What is your response to 
Apple and Google's suggestions that the App Store Freedom Act 
and other measures will hurt kids' privacy and security, and 
are these companies' financial incentives actually aligned with 
the needs of our children?
    Mr. Thayer. So in my testimony--I will State it again--it 
is all a farce. It is always the case where they play this game 
of if you want to regulate competition, it is a privacy issue; 
if you want to regulate privacy, it is a competition issue. So, 
frankly, it is the same story being told over and over again. 
And as I said in my testimony, Big Tech's lobby is unrelenting 
and unwavering on these points, and, frankly, it has to stop. 
And the fact that they have been gaslighting us for the past 
couple decades is a bit absurd, and I think it is now time to 
act on bills like how you--bills that you propose and many of 
the bills that we are seeing today.
    Mrs. Trahan. Thank you. It is, I agree, exhausting.
    What we need is competition in parents' and kids' 
interests. As my colleague from Florida posed earlier, imagine 
for a moment a kids-first app store, one built from the ground 
up to protect children, replete with a curated set of apps, 
tailored review practices run by experts in child safety, and 
feature rich parent controls. In this app store, safety ratings 
are vetted by experts, not self-reported. Bad actors are 
promptly booted and not allowed to return. Such an experience 
is technically feasible but made virtually impossible by Apple 
and Google's policies.
    Mr. Thayer, do you agree that the App Store Freedom Act, a 
bipartisan bill that I am coleading with Representative Cammack 
and Soto and others, would empower parents with meaningful 
choice over what software is on their kids' devices?
    Mr. Thayer. I think it is a huge step in the right 
direction, and it would absolutely go a long way in helping 
parents. More competition means more tools.
    Mrs. Trahan. Thank you.
    In closing, I urge this committee to internalize two 
important points: Apple and Google cannot be trusted to protect 
our kids, and parents deserve better. It is vital that Congress 
ensures that the open market can foster competition that, 
unlike Big Tech, actually takes kids' safety seriously. Thank 
you. I yield back.
    Mr. Fulcher. The gentlelady yields.
    The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California, Mr. 
Obernolte, please.
    Mr. Obernolte. Well, thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. And 
I would like to thank the committee for holding this hearing.
    This is a critically important topic, and, frankly, 
Congress is far behind in enshrining some of these protections 
into Federal law. So we have been trying for years to get this 
across the finish line. I am hoping that this is the year that 
some of these bills will make it through a markup and get past 
the House.
    As most of the people on the committee know, for many years 
I ran an app developer, and so when I read these bills, I kind 
of look at them through the lens of, if I was still developing, 
how difficult would these be for me to comply with and how 
would I go about complying with these requirements? And through 
that lens, unfortunately, the bills that we are considering 
today have a couple of pretty serious implementational 
problems.
    Let's start with age verification, which, you know, is key 
to the protections we are trying to provide here, because if we 
are going to say that an application can't do things if certain 
things--if a user is a minor, then we have to be able to figure 
out whether or not the user is a minor. That is really central 
to the protections we are trying to provide.
    The problem is--and a couple of the panelists brought it up 
in your testimony--when you force every single app developer to 
do that and the typical user might have 100 apps on their 
phone, you are collecting private information used to verify 
that age is 100 times and you are storing it 100 times, and 
that creates these repositories of private information that are 
really attractive targets for cybercriminals.
    So let me just suggest that it is much more efficient and 
much safer to do that just once at the operating system level. 
And that means that in the case of an iPhone, Apple would do 
it; in the case of an Android phone, Google would do it. They 
have a lot more information than developers do about the users 
of those platforms. And when you do it that way, you can 
enforce other protections.
    For example, if you have an application that is labeled 
``for adults only,'' the operating system shouldn't even launch 
it if a minor is the current user of the system.
    A couple of the bills, you know, talk about this. When an 
application developer is allowed to rely on the age signal that 
is being generated by the operating system, and there has been 
kind of an assertion that there are conditions under which 
applications shouldn't be able to rely on that signal, and that 
is crazy, because the developer doesn't know as much as the 
operating system does.
    So let me just assert that, if your application is for 
adults only and the operating system is telling you that there 
is an adult using it, you should be able to rely on that.
    You know, another thing that I think is really important 
for us to have a discussion on is this concept of duty of care. 
And I think it is reasonable that we should impose a duty on 
the people that are developing and deploying these 
applications, but I also think that it is lazy legislating for 
us not to define what we mean when we say ``duty of care.''
    We had a good example in a hearing in this subcommittee--I 
believe it was last year--when we were talking about whether or 
not an application should have a duty to prevent online 
bullying by taking down a post if it was reported as bullying. 
And we all could agree, you know, that is reasonable. That is a 
reasonable requirement.
    But we are also obligated to say, you know, when we impose 
that requirement, well, what is the requirement? What is a 
reasonable amount of time? Is it 2 days? Is it a day? Is it an 
hour?
    You know, if we don't define what we mean when we say 
``duty of care,'' then we are allowing some court in the future 
to be arguing about what we meant when we crafted the 
legislation. And let me just assert that, you know, it is our 
responsibility to not put our courts and our judicial system in 
that place and define what we mean up front.
    Enforcement. There has been a couple assertions by the 
panelists that a private right of action is a good thing. You 
know, let me just say we have to be really cautious about that. 
There are numerous examples in States across the country where 
that has gone awry. I will give you an example from my home 
State of California.
    We passed in the State legislature a few years ago 
something called the Private Attorney General Act that allowed 
private parties to enforce labor laws, and now if--anyone that 
has a district in California has horror stories about where 
abusive law firms go after not big businesses, because they can 
defend themselves, but small businesses. And I can point to 
multiple businesses in my district that have been driven out of 
business by frivolous lawsuits that anyone would agree is 
frivolous.
    And then one last--and I am not going to have time for 
questions, because I talk too much--but talking about 
preemption. You know, here is the deal. Like, we are trying to 
craft a compromise between being permissive and being 
protective. I mean, if we wanted to completely protect our 
kids, we would say kids can't go online, right. But, you know, 
we don't want to do that. We want to strike a balance.
    Once we have struck a balance, why would we allow different 
States to enact different balances? That creates a barrier to 
entry that favors large businesses over small businesses, and 
just think about how difficult it is to comply with potentially 
50 different State standards if you are two people in a garage 
somewhere trying to start a development company.
    So I am really happy we are having this conversation, and I 
think it is critically important we get this balance right, we 
get something across the finish line this year.
    I appreciate the discretion, Mr. Chairman. I yield back.
    Mr. Bilirakis [presiding], OK. The gentleman yields back.
    Now I will recognize Mr. Mullin for his 5 minutes of 
questioning.
    Mr. Mullin. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
    Turning to the SAFE Bolts Act--pardon me, SAFE Bots Act. As 
with some of the other bills being discussed today, I am 
concerned that this bill would require sensitive age 
verification data from users for it to be effective--data that, 
as pointed out by my colleagues, in recent times has not been 
collected or safely stored by companies.
    So, Ms. Ruane, in your testimony you described the First 
Amendment and privacy concerns with the age verification tools. 
Can you briefly outline some of the tools or ways companies 
verify the ages of their users and some of the risks with those 
methods?
    Ms. Ruane. Yes, absolutely. Thank you for the question.
    Yes, age assurance techniques create privacy and security 
risks regardless of where they are deployed, and if we are 
going to require their usage, we need to require them under the 
safest, highest guardrails we can possibly implement, including 
ensuring data minimization and deletion of that data.
    We also need to ensure that there is equitable access to 
services that impose age verification to access them, because 
some age verification techniques are disproportionately 
ineffective when applied to people who have differing gender 
identities and people of--with differing skin colors than White 
people, basically.
    Mr. Mullin. Thank you for that. I believe the SAFE Bots Act 
discusses important issues. AI chatbots should not impersonate 
licensed professionals, but I think this is true under all 
circumstances, not just for minors, especially given the 
difficulties around verifying the age of users.
    So turning to a separate issue. In your testimony, Ms. 
Ruane, you outline this important role that States have 
historically played in protecting minors from harm. I believe 
this is an important point to acknowledge, particularly as 
lawmakers look to close gaps and loopholes that may have left 
some emerging technologies outside the reach of current law.
    So what are the risks of widespread preemption displacing 
longstanding State-level protections or preventing lawmakers at 
all levels of government from adapting current laws to novel 
circumstances of chatbots?
    Ms. Ruane. Absolutely. Thank you for the question.
    Red States and blue States alike are currently examining 
the impacts of emerging technologies on children and, frankly, 
on everyone. We don't fully understand how these technologies 
work, how they gather data, how they use data, and the bills at 
issue today do not focus enough on chatbots to ensure that 
there will be comprehensive protections going forward. States 
are light years ahead of the Federal Government on that issue 
right now, and we need to preserve their ability to act--not 
just with respect to kids, but with respect to everyone.
    Mr. Mullin. Thank you for that. So, lastly, turning to 
KOSA. There is certainly no question that we need to protect 
kids online, but we need to also balance concerns around young 
people's right to access legitimate information. Kids use the 
internet to find community as well as to access important 
resources that are essential to their health, safety, personal 
development, that may not be available or easily accessible in 
offline circumstances.
    As we consider proposals like KOSA, we need to ensure we 
are reducing real harms without creating new risks throughout 
intended censorship or eliminating access to critical 
resources.
    So again, Ms. Ruane, you noted in your testimony the 
current version of KOSA moves in the right direction by 
strengthening protections for kids online while preserving 
access to information. Could you elaborate on that just a 
little bit? Why do you think this better ensures we maintain 
that balance and avoid unintended restrictions on the resources 
kids and teens are currently relying on?
    Ms. Ruane. Absolutely. Thank you.
    So in the Senate version of KOSA, one of our concerns is 
that it gives too much authority to platforms and requires them 
essentially to guess what types of content will harm children, 
and the guessing process is going to be backed up by whatever 
the government in charge of it--in this case the current FTC--
will determine harms children. So, for example, LGBTQ-related 
content or other controversial content, like climate change-
related content or content related to armed conflicts going on 
in the world, could be censored under KOSA if platforms guess 
that it will harm children.
    The House version of KOSA narrows the duty of care, 
requiring platforms to essentially address what are already 
illegal categories of content, hopefully narrowing and limiting 
the amount of guessing they will have to do about what content 
to deliver to kids. And we think that that is moving in the 
right direction in terms of preserving all kids' ability to 
access information and speak online.
    Mr. Mullin. Thank you for that. I yield back.
    Mr. Bilirakis. Appreciate it. The gentleman yields back.
    Now recognize Mr. Bentz for his 5 minutes of questioning.
    Mr. Bentz. Thank you, Mr. Chair, and thank the panel for 
sharing with us today your thoughts on this most important 
issue.
    Back in Oregon, where I am from, legislators have contacted 
me and asked what we are going to do in this space. Their 
primary concern is preemption.
    And so, Mr. Thayer, starting with you. One of the questions 
that has been asked is that several States--California, Utah, 
Arkansas, Texas, Florida--have passed and are implementing laws 
that require parental consent, a default time limit, secure 
curfews, or age verification for minors. If this bill preempts 
those laws but does not itself impose comparable restrictions, 
aren't you effectively asking Congress to shield business 
models from the very protection States have decided children 
need?
    Mr. Thayer. So on the issue of preemption, obviously, it is 
a sticky wicket and we take heavy thought in. I actually agree 
a lot with Ms. Ruane's--and I apologize if I am mispronouncing 
your name--statements when it comes--it relates to standard. I 
like a more complex type of preemption and to be a little bit 
clearer about what it is conflicting out.
    And so at Digital Progress Institute we are very interested 
in narrow preemptions. And so, again, happy to work with your 
office, and I am sure other folks as well would like to work 
with you as well to figure out exactly how to straddle that 
line.
    Mr. Bentz. Mr. Berkman, your thoughts.
    Mr. Berkman. On the App Store Accountability Act 
specifically?
    Mr. Bentz. No. On the thought of if we act here as we are 
going to, I hope, to protect children and we include in that 
packet of legislation a preemption of States getting involved, 
how do we explain to the States that we have gone to the very 
top level of protection when many would say, ``No, you 
haven't''?
    In other words, how does this preemption piece fit, and how 
do we justify it here in Congress by saying to States, like my 
Oregon, saying, ``Hey, we have it right, and you guys can just 
watch''?
    Mr. Berkman. Yes, so we make this analysis on a bill-by-
bill basis, and our calculus is very clear: We are looking for 
a robust national framework that improves social media safety 
in the totality of the circumstances. And so we will move bill-
by-bill in that analysis.
    Mr. Bentz. When I was thinking this through--and I haven't 
given it enough thought, I will admit that right off--it seemed 
to me that it was a commerce issue, right. You have 51 
different approaches--50, depending upon who you count as 
States and who aren't. The question is, why would we say we in 
Congress want to take this upon ourselves when we are basically 
establishing a ceiling as opposed to a floor? That is how the 
question has been put to me back by my legislature--
legislators.
    Mr. Berkman. It really is--in our view, it is a bill-by-
bill analysis. In some pieces of legislation, like Sammy's Law, 
preemption is noncontroversial, bipartisan, and makes a lot of 
sense. And so we are looking at, at the end of the day, where 
are we going to get the most protection for children and what 
is the analysis per bill?
    Mr. Bentz. So your thought would be, look at each bill, 
measure each bill, and go from there, and then somehow you can 
go back to the States and say, ``Well, we may not have taken 
care of it here, but we have over there.''
    That takes us nicely to the remarks made by my colleague, 
Mr. Obernolte, where he was talking about the difference 
between a general duty as opposed to specific things that you 
can't do. Share with me why one is better than the other, the 
broad, general duties undefined, although we hope we could, as 
opposed to calling out specific practices that are not allowed.
    Mr. Berkman. In terms of a duty of care?
    Mr. Bentz. Yes, but tell me which one is better for the 
protection of the child.
    Mr. Berkman. I mean, our focus today is on the legislation 
in front of us, and we are desperately trying to seek consensus 
on legislation that moves social media safety forward. And so 
right now we're not looking at a broad level duty of care in 
the hearing today.
    Mr. Bentz. Well, ignoring that attempt to not answer my 
question, which one do you think is better, or is it a 
combination of the two? Because as a lawyer I understand how 
great it is to have a specific, clear standard that you then 
have to prove as opposed to a broad, general thing that you 
are, you know, shooting at as you are bringing witnesses in. 
Which one do you think is better?
    Mr. Berkman. I mean, it is really hard to answer in the 
hypothetical. We support language, specific language, that is 
going to give the most robust workable protection for children 
at the end of the day. We want language that can pass Congress. 
We want language that is going to stand, be implemented, and 
enforced.
    Mr. Bentz. Thank you. Thank all of you for being here.
    I yield back.
    Mr. Bilirakis. The gentleman yields back.
    Now recognize my friend from the great State of Michigan, 
Mrs. Dingell, for her 5 minutes of questioning.
    Mrs. Dingell. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and--for holding 
this important hearing, and to all of the witnesses for 
testifying today. But I hope, Mr. Chairman, this is our last 
hearing and we move to action, because we need to be moving 
legislation.
    I want to remind us why we are here today. In this room 
there are parents who lost their children because Big Tech 
failed to protect them. This picture sits on my desk. Sam and 
Laura Chapman are here for their son. Sammy was just 16 years 
old when a drug dealer contacted him through a private Snapchat 
message and delivered fentanyl-laced pills to his home. On 
February 7, 2021, he was found dead in his bedroom. And that is 
why, along with Representative Evans, we have introduced the No 
Fentanyl on Social Media Act.
    Joann Bogard is here for her son. Mason was a 15-year-old 
who filmed himself attempting the choking challenge that he had 
seen on YouTube. That day, on May 1, 2019, his father found him 
unconscious. He died 3 days later. This coin sits on my desk 
too.
    Maureen Molak is here for her 16-year-old son, David, who 
died by suicide on January 4, 2016, after enduring relentless 
cyberbullying, harassment, humiliation, and threats by his 
peers via text message and on social media.
    Rose Bronstein is here for her son Nate, a 15-year-old who 
died by suicide on January 13, 2022, following nonstop 
cyberbullying and online harassment by his classmates in which 
no one stepped in to stop.
    And Deb Schmill is here for her daughter, Becca, who was 18 
when she bought what she thought was cocaine from a dealer she 
found on Facebook. It was laced with fentanyl and it killed her 
on September 16, 2020, the night before she was supposed to 
enter rehab.
    These families are here today because they are fighting for 
what is right: to hold Big Tech accountable and protect every 
child online. And I know there are other parents here. I want 
to hear your stories. But Sammy, Mason, David, Nate, and Becca 
are just five of the countless young people whose lives have 
been stolen because Big Tech won't act, and it is time for us 
to act. We owe these families real bipartisan action.
    So I am going to move to my bill quickly. I want to discuss 
the legislation that I have introduced with Congressman Evans. 
This bill directs Federal agencies to examine how traffickers 
use social media to reach minors; how platform design enables 
access to fentanyl, which I hope angers the President of the 
United States on down to all of us; and what solutions could 
help keep deadly drugs out of kids' hands.
    Mr. Berkman, how can this research under our bill help 
identify platform design features that enable fentanyl access 
and trafficking that targets minors?
    Mr. Berkman. Thank you, Congresswoman, for the question and 
for your legislation, which we do support.
    There are a number of families here today. You mentioned 
some. You don't have time for all of them. There are a number 
of families here that lost children due to fentanyl trafficking 
and drug trafficking over social media.
    This is a vital issue. We see it impacting children across 
the country. And so your legislation is incredibly important, 
because we need to understand with more specificity the 
features of platforms that are enabling trafficking, and it is 
happening. Someone mentioned drug trafficking happening in high 
schools. It was an example in person. It is happening on phones 
in high school via social media platforms.
    We have looked into this issue. We have been able to 
connect with a drug dealer that we obviously did not know 
before, and in minutes. That is how accessible this has 
become--drugs have become to children in the social media age. 
So your research is necessary so that we can have the 
interventions, both legislative and educational as well.
    Mrs. Dingell. Thank you.
    Mr. Chairman, I am going to beg my colleagues on this 
committee, can we please work together to protect children and 
keep other children from dying? And with that, I yield back.
    Mr. Bilirakis. Absolutely, I am with you, that is for sure.
    OK. Next, I will recognize Representative Fry from the 
great State of South Carolina. You are recognized for your 5 
minutes of questioning.
    Mr. Fry. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    I actually really have enjoyed hearing the discussion here 
today on the bills. I think, in preparation, my staff made this 
giant binder of homework that I had to go through, but I really 
wanted to kind of hear the discussion evolve. Because what I 
see on this issue generally is that you have two sides that are 
talking at each other or past each other, but not necessarily 
with each other. And I think it is really important we have got 
parents in the room. Typically, in an Energy and Commerce 
hearing, you don't see this level of engagement or people that 
are--that have a tremendous interest in watching what happens 
in these hearings, but I think it is important that we get this 
right. It is incredibly important.
    I have got an 8-year-old, and thankfully he is not on 
social media, and I don't anticipate anytime in the near future 
where he would be on social media, but kids are, and it is 
important that Congress gets this right.
    In the audience we have Brandon Guffey from the State of 
South Carolina. He is a State legislator from the Rock Hill 
area. Not my district. I represent the beach, which is a much 
better place, Brandon. But Brandon has made it his life's 
mission to go after sextortion. His son committed suicide as a 
result of a sextortion plot by a Nigerian man with 30 letters 
in his first name--I cannot pronounce it--messaging people on 
social media apps.
    And so the concern is absolutely there. As a parent myself, 
certainly he has done incredible work in the State of South 
Carolina, but beyond that we have to get this right.
    Again, I have a simple bill in this, the Kids Internet 
Safety Partnership Act, which I think encourages that dialogue, 
right, that it takes stakeholders--parental groups, social 
media companies, tech industries big, small, medium--putting 
together best practices, not only for the companies but for the 
parents too, on what to do and how to act and how to protect 
your children in this very connected environment.
    So I am super happy with that. I am happy that it is 
bipartisan. No one has talked any bad things about it today, so 
I think we are doing something right, I think, I hope.
    Paul, I want to ask you something, though. Your association 
published a child and teen privacy and safety principles, 
talking about data minimization, parental tools, transparency, 
and risk assessments. How well do you think that the 
partnership model like KISPA can do, the bill that I have, 
operationalize those principles, part one, and two, will your 
member companies commit to fully participating if Congress were 
to pass this and it were to be signed by the President?
    Mr. Lekas. Thank you for your question, and we appreciate 
your legislation as well. I think it is a really smart 
approach, and bringing more people together in a room to come 
up with solutions is always valuable and especially here. Not 
every solution is going to be legislative. There are things 
that Congress can and should do.
    So I think that, you know, this is an area where a lot can 
be done on a voluntary basis, but it also needs some teeth from 
Congress. And we are supportive of turning data minimization 
for youth into law, prohibiting targeted advertising of youth. 
We think these are really important, meaningful steps that can 
be taken. And the challenge is we may be able to bring together 
a number of companies that believe in upping their game and 
being more responsible and recognize the real concerns out 
there, but we don't know that that is going to be the case 
across the board. And very likely there will be some of that.
    Mr. Fry. Thank you for that. Real quick, I want to jump 
into the hot topic of the day, which is preemption. You like 
the House version preemption component as opposed to the 
Senate-passed version. Is that fair to say?
    Mr. Lekas. With respect to--well, we believe in preemption. 
We think that preemption is an important concept to start with 
because, right now--
    Mr. Fry. I understand that, and I have got 46 seconds, so 
let me nail this down. You like the House version of the 
preemption better than the Senate version.
    Mr. Lekas. We are still reviewing that with our members, 
the specific language, but we believe there needs to be a 
strong national standard for everybody.
    Mr. Fry. Mr. Thayer, you do not like the preemption of the 
House version. Is that correct? Not as much as maybe the Senate 
version.
    Mr. Thayer. I prefer the conflict preemption over as it 
relates.
    Mr. Fry. The Senate version.
    Mr. Thayer. I believe the Senate version has something 
similar to what the House version has, but it should--it is 
unclear right now as to whether or not this is a conflict 
preemption standard or--but as it relates typically is a 
broader standard, and at DPI we typically like incremental 
approaches to different policies. So the closer we can get to a 
conflict preemption standard, I think, the better off we are.
    Mr. Fry. Ma'am, and you like the conflict preemption 
standard over the broad preemption standard. Is that correct? 
Ma'am?
    Ms. Ruane. Pardon me. Yes, yes, we prefer conflict 
preemption--
    Mr. Fry. And unfortunately, Chairman, I am out of time, 
because I actually really wanted to dive into, like, a legal 
argument about the--or legal discussion about this to kind of 
figure out where the components are that really drive the 
differences and are there ways to rectify that, right. I mean, 
you hear the arguments on the other side on why maybe a broad, 
sweeping preemption would be beneficial, but then there are 
compelling arguments too on the other side of allowing States 
the flexibility to do their thing too.
    So unfortunately, Chairman, I am out of time, so I yield 
back, but I still want to have that discussion with you all.
    Mr. Bilirakis. Absolutely. The gentleman yields back.
    Now recognize Representative Kelly for her 5 minutes of 
questioning.
    Ms. Kelly. Thank you, Mr. Chair, and thank you to the 
witnesses.
    In Illinois and across the country, children and teens are 
becoming increasingly subject to the risk of AI chatbots, 
social media, and other online services. So without thorough, 
comprehensive privacy laws for all Americans, I worry we aren't 
meeting the moment to ensure the health and safety of our 
children, particularly concerning the mental health of children 
and teens. The bills we are discussing today present some 
opportunity for progress but also give me some concerns.
    Ms. Ruane, rates of depression and suicidal ideation among 
teens are alarming. In Illinois, there was a law passed just 
this year to prohibit the use of AI for direct therapeutic 
purposes, such as generating treatment plans. Can you describe 
how overbroad Federal preemption could overrule this and other 
important State laws?
    Ms. Ruane. Absolutely. Thank you, Representative Kelly.
    Red and blue States alike are currently examining kids' 
interactions with chatbots and online services and emerging 
technologies, and they are working to design ways to address 
concerns related to kids' privacy and their use of these 
services, like Illinois--like Illinois law. Preemption--relief 
to preemption, in particular--would put an end to that 
necessary thought-and-design process that is currently 
happening at the State level. Ossifying incomplete Federal 
standards and eliminating the possibility for States to step up 
and fill in gaps would be a mistake.
    Ms. Kelly. Thank you. Children might feel inclined to 
disclose sensitive data about their emotions, issues at school, 
mental health struggles to an AI chatbot. Alternatively, they 
may look to these tools to receive guidance on addressing their 
struggles in lieu of a friend, family member, or trusted adult. 
We have seen this lead to devastating situations, as Adam Raine 
who ended his life after seeking emotional support from 
ChatGPT.
    With that in mind, how can we treat--prevent chatbots from 
attempting to diagnose, manage, or treat children?
    Ms. Ruane. Absolutely. So we think that chatbots should not 
be allowed to present themselves as mental health professionals 
when they are not, when they are not licensed to do so.
    Another aspect of this that is worth thinking about is that 
this is another good example of why broad preemption would be 
concerning in this circumstance. Chatbots, basically all 
generative AI services, are data vacuums. They are collecting 
and compiling information from first parties, from third 
parties, from data brokers, all over the internet, and they are 
still in need of more and ever more data to train their 
services.
    If we preempt States' ability to deal with that issue, 
along with the issue of the--with the issue of the prompts that 
children are giving to services that are, as you noted, very 
private and related to extremely sensitive information, we will 
be failing children if we leave that gap in Federal law and at 
the State level as well.
    Ms. Kelly. You answered my other question. Like, how do we 
protect--but I did want to ask everyone really quick--this is a 
question that was posed to me that I am just going to ask.
    Some wanted to know, why don't we just codify massive 
statutory damages that make it so painful to be caught that 
then companies would pay attention? Do you think that would 
work?
    And just go down the line.
    Mr. Berkman. Yes.
    Ms. Kelly. Oh, you do. Oh, that was short and sweet.
    Mr. Lekas. I think there needs to be a showing of harm.
    Ms. Kelly. A showing of harm.
    Mr. Lekas. Actual harm. Yes.
    Ms. Ruane. We absolutely agree that damages need to be 
meaningful.
    For example, earlier this year, the FTC issued a fine 
against Disney for $10 million for COPPA violations. Disney is 
a $200 billion company. Ten million dollars is a rounding 
error.
    We need any damages that come as a result of violations of 
these privacy laws to be meaningful so that it incentivizes 
compliance.
    Ms. Kelly. Thank you.
    Mr. Thayer. Yes, with strong injunctions.
    Ms. Kelly. All right. Thank you so much.
    Thank you to the witnesses.
    And I yield back.
    Mr. Fulcher [presiding]. Thank you.
    The Chair recognizes the gentlelady from Florida, Ms. Lee, 
for 5 minutes, please.
    Ms. Lee. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and our witnesses.
    I also want to thank Chairman Bilirakis and Chairman 
Guthrie for including two of my bills--the Promoting a Safer 
Internet for Minors Act, which is co-led by my friend from the 
great State of Florida, Mr. Soto, and the Children and Teens' 
Online Privacy Protection Act, also known as COPPA 2.0, which I 
am proud to colead with Mr. Walberg of Michigan--in today's 
hearing.
    I have dedicated much of my career to protecting the most 
vulnerable in our society, including children and teens online, 
and I am committed to working with this committee to continue 
that work. I very much appreciate the discussion today about 
advancing policies that protect children and also empower 
parents as they navigate the digital landscape, while also 
safeguarding our First Amendment rights.
    Mr. Berkman, specifically, thank you for your work in 
empowering children and families with the tools they need to 
navigate social media safely and securely.
    Digital technologies change so fast that even the most 
engaged parents struggle to keep up with the latest apps and 
features. That is why the Promoting a Safe Internet for Minors 
Act would direct the FTC to launch a nationwide education 
campaign to help kids and parents learn how to stay safe.
    Would you share with us why a national education campaign, 
similar to what the Federal Government has done for seatbelts 
and cigarettes, is important and what type of information or 
tools you believe would be the most important to include?
    Mr. Berkman. Yes. Thank you so much for the question and 
for your cosponsorship of that legislation. We support it. We 
are across the country, as you mentioned, educating students, 
parents, and administrators at schools on how to keep children 
safer on social media because of that harm.
    And so I will say first, on the advocacy part of your 
campaign, it is absolutely critical--I have mentioned this 
before in the hearing. There is an alarming disconnect in the 
awareness of how severe and pervasive the harms are. People are 
concerned and frightened, but they just don't understand how 
truly bad this is.
    And so your legislation and that campaign is very sorely 
needed to bring awareness, and that helps us and other NGOs do 
our job.
    In terms of specific education, we need help certainly on 
the ground. We can't cover every single child in every single 
school, though that is our goal.
    In terms of talking about best practices, there is a lot of 
talk out there. It seems accessible, when we talk about social 
media safety. There is a lot of talk out there about social 
media safety, and the curriculum is not necessarily evidence-
based. And that leads to time wasting at best and, at worst, 
counter-results or detrimental results to the child.
    And so we thank you for your legislation. I think it is 
going to do a lot of good, and I hope it passes.
    Ms. Lee. Thank you.
    Mr. Lekas, thank you for your work, as well, in protecting 
the safety of minors online and your perspective on modernizing 
COPPA for the 21st century. When it was originally enacted, of 
course, it was well before today's landscape of digital devices 
and online platforms.
    One of the principles that you have discussed is the 
approach to child and teen privacy and restricting advertising 
to minors. COPPA 2.0 would prohibit targeted advertising to 
children and teens.
    But would you explain for us how targeted advertising 
differs from contextual advertising, and the risk that targeted 
advertising poses to young people?
    Mr. Lekas. Absolutely. Thank you very much for that 
question.
    So targeted advertising involves delivering advertisements 
that are specific to an individual based on their online 
behavior and the information that may be collected about them. 
So think of, perhaps, creating a profile or a dossier on an 
individual--a machine would do this--and then deliver 
advertisements that seem suitable, according to the automated 
system, to that individual.
    Ranking Member Pallone raised some concerns earlier today 
about the way in which data can be used--minors' data can be 
used, and when they turn 18, there is this dossier on them. And 
that is what we are seeking to prevent.
    We think that contextual advertising, which is based on 
things like age-appropriate advertising, where your location 
is, is something that is appropriate because it doesn't require 
collecting individually specific information and creating a 
repository of very sensitive information.
    Ms. Lee. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will yield back.
    Mr. Bilirakis [presiding]. The gentlelady yields back.
    I now recognize Ms. Schrier, Dr. Schrier, for her 
questioning.
    Ms. Schrier. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    Thank you to all of our witnesses for this really important 
discussion today.
    I am very glad to see Sammy's Law included in this hearing. 
I have worked closely with Representatives Carter and Miller-
Meeks and Wasserman Schultz to really carefully craft this 
bill.
    Over and over today and in past hearings, we have heard 
about all of the tremendous dangers that kids and teens are 
facing online and the real-world problems and dangers that 
social media can create or make much worse. And, as discussed, 
we are talking about anxiety and depression and eating 
disorders and bullying and sexual trafficking and abuse and 
exposure to or access to drugs and even suicidality. And it 
feels really almost impossible for parents to protect their 
kids online.
    This bill--we already saw a picture of Sammy--is named 
after Sammy Chapman, who, when he was just 16, bought a 
fentanyl-laced pill over Snapchat, and it killed him. One pill. 
And Sammy's dad, Sam, is in the room today.
    And I just want to thank you, Sam, for your advocacy and 
for stepping up to protect other kids from that same fate.
    Sammy's Law is simple. It would just make sure that parents 
can monitor their teens on social media. And we worked so hard 
to find the right balance so that parents are alerted by third-
party watchdog apps but kids' privacy is also protected. And 
so, if certain topics rise up, then a parent gets a warning.
    But this only works if the social media companies will 
allow these watchdog apps to work with them.
    Mr. Berkman, thank you for being here today. I was 
wondering if you could just expand on why the existing settings 
and controls for minors on social media apps just aren't 
cutting it and why we need these watchdog apps.
    Mr. Berkman. Yes. First of all, thank you so much for your 
coleadership of this legislation, especially given your 
background as a pediatrician. And I say that as a son of a 
pediatrician, so I have reverence for that experience.
    Sammy's Law is an essential part of this puzzle in terms of 
protecting children. First of all, it protects against almost 
the full spectrum of harms that are impacting children. And you 
named a lot of them, not even all of them. There's a lot of 
them, to be clear.
    We have mentioned numerous times in this hearing that the 
social media platforms have an inherent conflict of interest 
between our children's safety and their profits. They move 
slowly.
    And a perfect example here is drug trafficking over social 
media. We started--this was not really a major harm when we 
started our work as the Organization for Social Media Safety. 
It really exploded on the scene around 2020, and we started 
seeing a lot of deceased children because of drugs that they 
purchased over social media.
    We saw safety software companies, which do exist today and 
are actively protecting children, immediately act to make sure 
that they were keeping up with the language used by dealers to 
communicate with children--the emojis, the acronyms. Meanwhile, 
it took the social media platforms years to even acknowledge 
the problem.
    And so that is point number one.
    Point number two, really quickly, I will make really 
quickly, is this technology, sending parents alerts, 
maintaining your child's privacy as well--alerts just on the 
harm--is incredible technology. We are able to alert parents to 
imminent risk. The social media platforms----
    Ms. Schrier. I am going to have to----
    Mr. Berkman [continuing]. Cannot do that.
    Ms. Schrier. Thank you.
    Mr. Berkman. Thank you.
    Ms. Schrier. I am going to cut you off there. Just--I want 
to make a couple more comments.
    We have heard about this today. I want to just talk about 
KOSA, the Kids Online Safety Act, which is a great bipartisan 
bill that passed, I believe unanimously or almost unanimously, 
in the Senate, has teeth, has a duty of care for social media 
companies that really holds them accountable. And yet the 
version this year that we are taking on of KOSA has been 
gutted. It is toothless. It does not give the enforcement 
mechanisms.
    And all of the people--I was a colead of the last one--who 
supported it last time are feeling so frustrated that, like, 
this is not the best we can do. And I just want to emphasize 
that the previous bill, the one with teeth, is the one we 
should be bringing up today to really protect kids online.
    Similarly, there is a discussion today about getting kids 
under 16 off social media. I just want to say that there is a 
Kids Off Social Media Act, KOSMA, that also has a bill, 
bipartisan, in the Senate, with a path that could be signed by 
the President. And we need to be taking that bill up if we are 
serious about doing something soon to protect our kids.
    Thank you. I yield back.
    Mr. Bilirakis. The gentlelady yields back.
    I will recognize Representative Kean for his 5 minutes of 
questioning.
    Mr. Kean. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    And thank you to our distinguished witnesses for being here 
today.
    Protecting America's children is of the utmost importance. 
The internet and social media have brought many opportunities 
to the American people; however, they have also brought with 
them dangerous harms to American children. I look forward to 
hearing from our witnesses on how we can ensure that parents 
have the tools necessary to safely guide their children through 
their online activities.
    Mr. Berkman, video games are a part of daily activities for 
many families in New Jersey and across this Nation. While many 
view these games as merely toys, the truth is that many video 
games have become fully functioning social networks.
    For years, the gaming industry has defaulted to open 
communication, letting anyone talk to anyone. That is why I 
introduced the Safer GAMING Act. My bill requires that for 
minors the default setting must be the safest one, meaning 
voice and text chat with strangers is turned off until a parent 
turns it on.
    Can you discuss how minors are using social gaming 
platforms and the risks to minors using these platforms?
    Mr. Berkman. Thank you very much for the question, 
Congressman.
    We believe that these types of gaming platforms that you 
call ``social gaming,'' they are social media. They are a space 
where children and adults can go on, meet other people on the 
platform, and exchange content in the gaming situation, 
context--video and text mainly.
    And so, because of that, we see the same risks, 
essentially, that we see on other types of social media 
platforms: severe cyberbullying, sextortion, sexual predation, 
abduction as well. So there is a full range of very serious 
risks here.
    Mr. Kean. So, as a followup to that, we know that predators 
often use the shared interest of a video game to build trust 
with a child. The statistics show that about two-thirds of 
minors say that an online-only contact has asked them to move 
from a public chat into a private conversation on another 
platform.
    How would the default safeguards in my bill, which limit 
communication with strangers automatically, disrupt that cycle 
before it even starts?
    Mr. Berkman. Well, the short answer is, it is as effective 
as you can get with a legislative change to mitigate this 
threat. If we are removing the ability for adults to contact 
minors over gaming platforms, that is almost entirely effective 
in terms of mitigation.
    And let's be clear: When children go on these gaming sites, 
they are spending anywhere from 20 minutes to many hours, to 
many hours a day, over months, with adults that they do not 
know in real life. That is a lot of time for adults with 
malintent to spend with a child and conduct that grooming 
process.
    We saw in April, I should note, in April, a 10-year-old 
abducted after using the gaming platform Roblox. This is an 
active, serious threat.
    Mr. Kean. Thank you, Mr. Berkman.
    Mr. Thayer, the data is alarming. Nearly 70 percent of 
teens report they are playing online games with strangers at 
least weekly, and three-quarters of players have experienced 
harassment in these games.
    My bill takes an important step to address that. The Safer 
GAMING Act says if a user is under 18 they should not be 
participating in chats, particularly with adults, unless a 
parent explicitly allows for it.
    Mr. Thayer, what harms can arise when every teenager 
playing an online video game automatically has an open 
communication line to a random adult stranger?
    Mr. Thayer. Well, Congressman, the short answer is too 
much.
    And I think you have seen that even outside of your typical 
game that you see on Xbox or PlayStation. You see it even on 
mobile apps. I mean, this has been a longstanding problem with 
mobile apps in particular.
    Pokemon GO, for instance, was a hot-button game, and it 
actually indirectly--or, actually, directly led kids to the 
predators' hands. Because the whole point of the game was to go 
into public areas and go find Pokemon, which--guess who picked 
up kids like that and also tracked kids with, you know, 
Pokemon?
    So, again, this is a longstanding issue. It has been 
something that has been strategically, maybe even 
categorically, ignored by the tech companies, and maybe it is 
time for a lot of congressional oversight and legal oversight.
    Mr. Kean. All right.
    And I thank our entire panel for being here today and for 
your insights.
    I yield back.
    Mr. Bilirakis. The gentleman yields back.
    Now I will recognize Representative Clarke from the great 
State of New York for your 5 minutes of questioning.
    Ms. Clarke. Good afternoon, and thank you very much, Mr. 
Chairman. I thank our Ranking Member Schakowsky for holding 
this hearing.
    And thank you to our witnesses for joining us today.
    Earlier this year, in March, the subcommittee held a 
hearing titled ``Examining Online Harms'' with the expectation 
to discuss how Congress can help protect children from online 
harms. That hearing was derailed when, in the days leading up, 
Donald Trump attempted to illegally fire the Democratic 
Commissioners of the FTC, the very agency tasked with 
protecting kids and adults online.
    The FTC has a long, bipartisan history of working to 
protect children online through their enforcement of the 
Children's Online Privacy Protection Act, the FTC Act, and 
their rulemaking authority. But since March, the FTC has been 
unable to do its job in good faith and maintain its historic 
role as a bipartisan, independent cop on the beat.
    As I said to this committee 9 months ago, I am curious how 
Mr. Trump and my Republican colleagues think the firing of 
Democratic Commissioners furthers the mission of the FTC to 
protect kids online and the public from deceptive or unfair 
business practices. If my colleagues, my Republican colleagues, 
are serious about protecting kids from online harm, we should 
all be able to agree today that Rebecca Slaughter should be 
reinstated to the FTC.
    But, unfortunately, my colleagues on the other side of the 
aisle are not serious about this topic. And that is why they 
continue to entertain the idea of a moratorium on State AI 
laws, even after it was defeated 99 to 1 in the Senate. In 2025 
alone, all 50 States introduced legislation on AI, while 
Republicans in Congress offered no Federal alternative other 
than preemption. It is no mistake that the only Republican 
proposal frees AI and Big Tech companies from all oversight.
    Without a comprehensive Federal standard, existing State 
laws are the only legislation keeping kids safe online right 
now. Without a comprehensive Federal online data privacy law, 
all of these attempts at protecting our children online will be 
in vain.
    Today's legislative package is missing the mark.
    The State laws include State bills like the AI companion 
law in New York that clearly and regularly notify users that 
they are not interacting with a human and detect signs of self-
harm and can direct users to crisis resources.
    Any kind of broad preemption or moratorium on existing AI 
State legislation would kneecap the important work States like 
New York have already done to protect kids.
    Instead of talking in circles and restating the obvious, 
today I encourage my colleagues to finally act. Demand the 
reinstatement of Commissioner Slaughter. Demand the exclusion 
of an AI moratorium in must-pass legislation. Demand that 
Donald Trump stop giving handouts to Big Tech. And let Congress 
do our job to protect kids and adults online with comprehensive 
legislation.
    As I look out at the many families representing their loved 
ones here today, I find today's hearing extremely vexing. My 
staff has noted that this committee has had at least 5 hearings 
on the threats to kids online over the past 5 years. This is 
ridiculous.
    It is time for us to act, colleagues. Every moment that we 
sit here restating the obvious, children and our families are 
at risk.
    With that, Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
    Mr. Bilirakis. The gentlelady yields back.
    I now recognize Mrs. Houchin for her 5 minutes of 
questioning.
    Mrs. Houchin. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and the ranking 
member for holding this hearing today and for the bipartisan 
work reflected in today's hearing.
    I thank the witnesses for being here and for offering your 
testimony.
    The importance of this work is impossible to overstate, 
because behind every policy choice are families who are living 
with the consequences.
    I have been deeply moved by the parents, some of whom are 
here today, who despite losing a child continue to fight for 
stronger protections so no other family has to experience the 
same tragedy. Their experience brings an urgency and a clarity 
for policymakers, and we owe it to them to turn that into 
meaningful change.
    Every parent I talk to is doing everything they can to 
guide their kids and protect them online, on social media, 
through gaming platforms, and now AI. And they are simply 
overwhelmed and cannot keep up--policymakers can barely keep 
up--with the advance in technology.
    So this Congress we are recognizing how quickly the risks 
are evolving. I worked to launch the bipartisan Kids Online 
Safety Caucus so Members can stay current and engage with 
parents, researchers, schools, and industry.
    I am also proud that today's hearing includes bills that I 
have been working on--the AWARE Act, the SAFE Bots Act, and the 
RESET Act, as well as the Parents Over Platforms Act, which I 
am helping colead with Representative Auchincloss.
    Kids deserve the same safety mindset online that we have 
with car seats and playgrounds and other harms. The bills today 
reflect that approach.
    The AWARE Act gives parents and educators clear, accessible 
guidance on how chatbots work, what red flags to look for, and 
where to go to for help.
    The SAFE Bots Act ensures no AI system can impersonate a 
licensed professional and requires age-appropriate disclosure 
so kids always know that they are talking to software, not a 
human being.
    The RESET Act asks whether 13 should still be the standard, 
the age of internet adulthood. Given that research shows the 
highest risks for social media harms fall below the age of 16, 
this bill creates a bright line and a national rule that 
platforms may not maintain accounts for users under 16. They 
must delete known under-16 accounts and their data and must 
follow a single standard enforced by the FTC and State's 
attorneys general.
    The legal and global trends point in the same direction. 
Protecting minors from high-risk digital environments is both 
necessary and clearly permissible and possible. Our job is to 
learn from these developments so we can set guardrails worthy 
of the moment, and I look forward to working with colleagues on 
both sides of the aisle to accomplish that.
    I do have a few questions with the remaining time that I 
have. I am going to go to Mr. Thayer.
    We have heard a lot of concerns raised about the First 
Amendment relative to some of these bills. The 11th Circuit 
decision on H.B. 3, the Florida legislation, emphasized that 
States can act decisively to protect minors from harmful 
digital environments even when platforms claim editorial 
rights.
    Does that signal, in your view, that Congress can likewise 
adopt RESET's type of bright-line Federal standard--under-16 
account prohibition and deletion--without triggering First 
Amendment concerns that Big Tech continues to raise?
    Mr. Thayer. Absolutely.
    So the 11th Circuit, as you rightly noted, did uphold a law 
that was somewhat similar to what you are describing. And just 
to reiterate what the ruling basically said, which was just a 
rehashing of what was said in the Supreme Court in TikTok v. 
Garland, it essentially said that--the court basically 
clarified that a law has to be based off of what it is 
attempting to regulate.
    If the regulation is attempting to regulate something that 
is a nonspeech-related thing, even if the ancillary aspects of 
that regulation does impact speech, it is likely going to be 
content-neutral, with some provisos.
    So I think that what the 11th Circuit did was clarify 
something that the Supreme Court has said. And I think it would 
be very wise to heed that guidance and move forward 
accordingly.
    Mrs. Houchin. Thank you.
    We have talked some today about preemption. I just want to 
note that we do seek a Federal standard so that States cannot 
go below--I certainly wouldn't want a State like California, 
who has a 13-year-old standard.
    So, if we are talking about preemption, I think we have to 
be cognizant that, if there are--we want the States to be 
nimble, but we also don't want them to go below a standard set 
federally that we have determined will protect kids. Otherwise, 
we might as well not do this work and just leave it up to the 
States.
    Protecting children in the digital age is one of our most 
important responsibilities that we have as elected leaders. It 
is clearly one of the most important moral responsibilities we 
have as parents. AI is not going away. Social media is not 
going away. It is our obligation to defend and protect the 
innocent and the next generation.
    Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back.
    Mr. Bilirakis. I thank the lady for all her good work on 
this issue.
    I next will recognize Representative Evans for his 5 
minutes of questioning.
    Mr. Evans. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Ranking Member, and, of 
course, to all of our witnesses for coming.
    My first question will be to Mr. Berkman.
    Before I came to Congress, I spent over a decade as a cop 
in the Denver metro area, and I saw the fentanyl crisis grow in 
my State and across the country. In 2023, Colorado had the 
second-highest overdose rate in the Nation for teenagers, and 
75 percent of that was attributed to fentanyl. Earlier this 
year, we had the sixth-largest fentanyl seizure in U.S. history 
happen on the south side of the Denver metro area--6.8 million 
lethal doses of fentanyl in that seizure.
    And we know a lot of this stuff is trafficked to our kids 
through things like social media. So, to counter this threat, 
one of the bills that I am carrying is the No Fentanyl on 
Social Media Act, which seeks to address this problem by 
assessing the full scope of how social media is used to be able 
to traffic fentanyl to our kids.
    Can you discuss the role of social media in trafficking 
drugs and how this piece of legislation can help to resolve 
that issue?
    Mr. Berkman. Yes. Thank you for your legislation. We 
enthusiastically support it, and we need it.
    Children are acquiring drugs over social media. The 
accessibility is astonishing. This is not the situation that we 
had presocial media in terms of accessibility. They are able to 
get on, quickly connect with a drug dealer, sometimes one that 
they don't know. There is solicitation happening with 
regularity to teens. They are able to conduct a drug 
transaction and then have drugs delivered to their door like a 
pizza. This is the tragic story of what happened to 16-year-old 
Sammy Chapman as well.
    I will note, this is also happening cross-platform, which 
is a safety concern, where drug dealers can advertise on one 
platform, conduct a conversation and transaction on another, 
and then receive payment on yet another. That is a very severe 
problem.
    So we need your bill to understand the full facet of how 
this is happening, the features that are enabling it to happen, 
as well, and go undetected.
    Mr. Evans. Online games with a chat feature--I mean, again, 
I saw it during the course of my career.
    This is for a situation--what we just discussed--the 
situations where somebody is potentially looking to go buy 
drugs, that is their intent. Can you talk a little bit about 
storefront apps, where maybe somebody is not actually looking 
to go buy drugs, they just bought a painkiller that they 
thought was legitimate, but it ends up being counterfeit and so 
then, when they consume what they thought was a legitimate 
product, they end up dying of an overdose because it was an 
illicit or a fraudulent pill?
    So can you just talk about how policy solutions like what 
we are discussing today can be used to fix some of the 
storefront nature of these apps, where people are buying 
something they think is legit but ends up being fraudulent?
    Mr. Berkman. With the focus of this hearing on children, I 
will focus on children there. We see this happening with 
children. And, again, Sammy Chapman thought that he was buying 
Xanax over social media. I wish I could name all the parents 
and children here and honor them. That is the case with a lot 
of the parents here as well.
    And so legislation like Sammy's Law would help protect 
against a child that is otherwise bored trying to go out and 
get something like Adderall, Xanax, Vicodin, which we are now 
seeing being poisoned with fentanyl and being lethal. And that 
education and awareness needs to spread as well. But Sammy's 
Law is a very strong deterrent to that behavior.
    Mr. Evans. Thank you.
    And then a final question here. In your comments, you 
talked about some of the other harms that come from kids on 
social media. We have talked a lot about drugs. As a cop, I 
unfortunately had many situations where I interacted with kids 
being human trafficked over the internet and over social media.
    And for me as a cop, probably the most shocking statistic, 
once I really got into this space, was understanding that a lot 
of times this trafficking happens within a half a mile of these 
kids' home. It is done through peer pressure over social media. 
And then the exploitation, whether it is digital, whether it is 
sexting, whether it is an actual in-person encounter--I mean, 
it can happen in their own home. I had one girl, 14 years old, 
that was repeatedly trafficked in her own basement through 
social media and online peer pressure.
    So can you just talk about things that this committee can 
do legislatively to be able to put guardrails around situations 
like that? Twenty seconds.
    Mr. Berkman. Yes. trafficking, sextortion--our children are 
no longer safe in their homes. That includes cyberbullying as 
well, which does not end at the end of the school day.
    And so there are a range of solutions on here. I have 5 
seconds. Let me highlight Sammy's Law once again. All the 
dangers that you mentioned, a parent would get an alert as that 
risk is imminent and occurring so that they could provide 
immediate, lifesaving support.
    Mr. Evans. Loop in the parent. Sounds good.
    I yield back, Chairman.
    Mr. Bilirakis. The gentleman yields back.
    I now recognize Mr. James from the great State of Michigan 
for his 5 minutes of questioning.
    Mr. James. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And, first, I want to 
express my sincere gratitude to you and Chairman Guthrie for 
your leadership in organizing this amazing hearing.
    I also appreciate all our distinguished panelists for being 
here today. I look forward to hearing from your insight, and I 
have been enjoying your feedback thus far.
    I have said for years Facebook is the Philip Morris of our 
time. Yet they are just one example of the cesspool that is the 
modern internet. Americans are waking up to Big Tech's game. 
They provide lip service on how they are protecting children 
while actually delivering none of those protections.
    Social media has been labeled the primary culprit, and for 
good reason. Countless studies and multiple congressional 
hearings make clear that social media is not only an addictive 
service for children but is also harmful for their mental 
acuity and overall mental health.
    The damage social media is doing to our kids is 
unconscionable and extremely disturbing. Big Tech is knowingly 
and willingly wreaking havoc on our kids' mental health. As a 
father of three school-age boys, the warning signs of social 
media's impact on kids are abundantly clear to me and to all 
parents.
    My bill, H.R. 3149, the App Store Accountability Act, 
ensures that children are not accessing age-restricted material 
through online app stores and gives parents real control over 
what their kids can download.
    In fact, a national poll commissioned by Digital Childhood 
Alliance found that 88 percent of parents want app stores to 
require parental approval before minors can download a new app. 
Eighty-eight percent. Can you imagine any other issue that 88 
percent of Americans agree on? We have printed 83 letters just 
today from parents and groups who agree.
    Just as brick-and-mortar stores are held responsible for 
selling age-restricted materials like tobacco or alcohol to 
minors, the App Store Accountability Act will hold digital app 
stores accountable for providing adult or addictive material to 
minors as well.
    Kids cannot consent. I say again: Kids cannot consent. And 
any company that exposes them to adult or addictive material 
should and will be held accountable.
    The App Store Accountability Act holds Big Tech companies 
to the same standard as local corner stores. It protects the 
next generation by empowering parents now and making clear 
that, when it comes to safeguarding our children, no one gets a 
free pass.
    My time is limited, so I will get right to it.
    Mr. Thayer, as excited as I am to lead this App Store 
Accountability Act, I do want to share, the logic is very 
simple: App stores are a gateway to the internet, for social 
media, for our children.
    You have played a very critical role in shaping similar 
legislation at the State level. Can you state one more time why 
placing the burden to verify a user's age on the app store, 
rather than on individual websites or apps, is the most 
efficient and privacy-protective way to ensure online safety 
for kids?
    Mr. Thayer. Well, thank you, Congressman, for all of your 
work on this. You have been a real champion, and it has been an 
honor and privilege working with you and your staff.
    Actually, I think who said it better was Congressman 
Obernolte themselves. They have the data already. They already 
have all of the access to this information. And not only that, 
they already are developing the tools currently.
    So, in the States, we got, I think, three States to 
subscribe to the App Store Accountability Act and pass it. 
Texas is among them. And, as a result, it actually forced Apple 
to create the API that would be necessary in order to 
accomplish all of this.
    As you say, this is a very simple idea: Leverage the 
existing infrastructure to do an amount of good. And at the end 
of the day, they are the ones calling themselves a store, not 
us. So if they want to be a store, we should hold them to the 
same accountability as any other store in any other market.
    It is absurd that merely because you put electrons into a 
store it is somehow magically new. No. They know what they are 
selling, they know what is on their product, and, most 
importantly, they know the age of their user better than any 
other company in the world.
    Mr. James. That is exactly right.
    And maybe you could help me to respond to some of--I won't 
say the ``critics,'' but those who may not know the intent or 
the details of what we are trying to do here. Can you help 
explain a little bit differently privacy concerns that some may 
rise?
    Mr. Thayer. So I actually don't have to, because Apple 
itself has said that they can actually do all of this in a 
privacy-conscious way.
    So, to be clear, all the Act is really requiring Apple and 
Google to do is to share an API that is encrypted. And they do 
this on multiple different layers, not just on--not just to 
verify age, but actually they have done it--every time you do a 
financial transaction, that is an API. That is an API that is 
connecting with some other app that says, ``Hey, the 
transaction has gone through.''
    Apple and Google act as the direct not only the 
intermediaries, but they are basically the brokers to all of 
these issues. And they have been able to say with a straight 
face that they can do so--privacy--and put all the safeguards 
in place. All this Act does is hold them accountable to what 
they tell the American population. That is it.
    Mr. James. Thank you, Mr. Thayer.
    Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My time has expired.
    Mr. Bilirakis. Thank you.
    The gentleman yields back.
    Now, Dr. Joyce, you are recognized for your 5 minutes of 
questioning.
    Mr. Joyce. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    Today's hearing is an important step toward protecting our 
children from the harms of social media. And I want to 
personally thank Chairman Bilirakis and Chairman Guthrie for 
their tireless work to protect the most vulnerable among us.
    Two weeks ago, the Oversight subcommittee held a hearing on 
the risks of AI chatbots and the way that these platforms can 
be improved to keep children safe. As new technologies like AI 
chatbots are deployed online, we must honestly evaluate the 
potential benefits and risks and enact operational, futureproof 
safeguards that will protect current and future generations.
    So I welcome the opportunity to learn more about the 
proposals before us today and how they can achieve our shared 
goal of protecting children online.
    Mr. Lekas, the Don't Sell Kids' Data Act is predicated on 
the view that data practices of third parties are inherently 
harmful to children and teens. Yet, while privacy protections 
are essential, not every use of data is harmful.
    In your opinion, as drafted, could the Don't Sell Kids' 
Data Act bring about unintended adverse consequences for kids 
and teens?
    Mr. Lekas. Thank you for that question.
    In my view, yes.
    There are no exemptions in this law. And I think there is 
something that the general public doesn't understand, which is 
the many ways in which data is used behind the scenes actually 
provide us with benefits that we don't see, such as extending 
auto insurance to teenagers or enabling students to apply for 
financial aid or be scouted for college scholarships.
    There is a range of positive uses that don't rely on social 
media data that we have been talking about today but they rely 
on data that actually is protected by other privacy laws--the 
FCRA and the GLBA and these laws that already provide a means 
to protect that data so it is only used for legitimate 
purposes.
    Mr. Joyce. Continuing, Mr. Lekas: The Don't Sell Kids' Data 
Act includes private right of action to enforce that bill. And 
in your written testimony, you state that effective enforcement 
``should be designed to improve privacy and safety practices'' 
and that ``enforcement shouldn't be watered down with private 
rights of action.'' That is a quote from your testimony.
    Can you expand on that point and discuss how a private 
right of action could actually weaken enforcement and hurt 
consumers?
    Mr. Lekas. Happy to.
    We have seen a number of instances across the country, in 
State laws especially, with private rights of action that lead 
to lawsuits that are based on statutory violations even if 
there is no showing of harm. And the impact of this--there's a 
number of impacts that result from this.
    One is that it causes firms to act in a more defensive 
posture. They are trying to minimize their legal risk rather 
than actually trying to fulfill what their duty is to their 
consumers or their users or, in some cases, as in here, the 
youth.
    And another thing is it drives up costs, especially legal 
and compliance costs. Particularly hardest hit are the smallest 
firms--startups, small, medium-size enterprises.
    Mr. Joyce. Could this deter those small startups, those 
small firms, from entering into the market?
    Mr. Lekas. It very well could. There have been a lot of 
studies done on this about the actual economic costs on 
companies based on privacy laws. There is a law in Illinois 
called BIPA which has been particularly notable in this regard.
    So we want meaningful--we want meaningful enforcement and 
accountability, but we want that enforcement and accountability 
to lead to change where we need change and for there to be a 
recourse for individuals who are truly harmed by practices.
    And so that is why we would recommend in some of these 
children-focused laws to really home in on FTC and AG 
enforcement.
    Mr. Joyce. Thank you.
    Mr. Thayer, many proposals rely on age-verification 
technology. Some have critiqued age verification as violating 
privacy and age-gating the internet.
    What advances in age-verification technology give you 
confidence that we can effectively verify users' ages 
accurately while at the same time protecting their privacy?
    Mr. Thayer. Well, in short, many.
    So you saw this play out in the Supreme Court in the Paxton 
case, where part of the assessment that the Court was grappling 
with was not just the content that was at issue but also the 
technological advances since the last time they evaluated this, 
which I believe was in, like, 1996 or 1992. And the internet 
has completely changed, right? I mean, with the amount of--the 
sheer amount of data that we give these companies has 
completely altered the landscape.
    And now you have vertically integrated systems like Apple 
and Google's systems, for instance, where Apple and Google both 
own not only the device, they own the operating system, they 
own the app store, and they even have their own native apps.
    So the idea that, you know, somehow they know exactly when 
you go to the bathroom and what you want to eat but yet your 
age confounds them, like, is a bit of a ridiculous and almost 
outdated view.
    Mr. Joyce. My time has expired.
    Mr. Chairman, again, I thank you for holding this important 
hearing, and I yield back.
    Mr. Bilirakis. Thank you, Doctor. Appreciate it very much.
    Now I will recognize last, but certainly not least, Dr. 
Miller-Meeks for her 5 minutes of questioning.
    Mrs. Miller-Meeks. Thank you, Chairman Bilirakis and 
Ranking Member Schakowsky, for allowing me to waive on to this 
important hearing.
    I also want to thank our witnesses for being here today.
    Protecting children and teens online is one of the most 
urgent responsibilities we face as policymakers. As digital 
platforms become central to how young people learn, 
communicate, and navigate the world, and, importantly, how much 
they trust these platforms, we must ensure that these spaces 
are safe, transparent, and designed with their wellbeing, not 
corporate profit, as the driving priority.
    And to one of the witness's points, it is astonishing to me 
that we can build computers, build platforms, build apps all 
through a digital world, but somehow Casey's General Store can 
verify your age no matter how old you look, but a digital 
platform that has this remarkable innovation can't verify an 
age when inappropriate apps or content is accessed.
    So my bill, the SPY Kids Act, takes an important step 
towards that goal by prohibiting online platforms from 
conducting market or product-focused research on children under 
13 and by requiring verifiable parental consent before such 
research can be conducted on teens.
    After all, didn't the public-health community raise red 
flags about cereal companies marketing directly to children for 
the type of cereal that they would purchase? So it is not 
impossible that we do this.
    This legislation matters because the online environment our 
children encounter today is fundamentally different from 
anything previous generations have experienced. Platforms are 
engineered to capture attention, collect sensitive information, 
and shape behavior in ways that young users may not recognize 
or be able to navigate safely.
    Children and teens should not be profited, studied, or 
targeted for commercial advantage, especially without parental 
oversight. By limiting how platforms can analyze and monetize 
minors' data, the SPY Kids Act helps reduce the risk of 
manipulative marketing practices, strengthens privacy 
protections, and reinforces the principle that the wellbeing of 
America's youth must come before business models of technology 
companies.
    Our goal is simple: to build an online ecosystem where 
children can grow, learn, and connect without being exploited 
in the process.
    Mr. Berkman, before I came to Congress, I was a doctor and 
director of the Iowa Department of Public Health. The CDC 
recommended limits to screen time. And in the medical world, we 
have strict ethical rules about conducting research on 
children. You cannot just use a child in research without the 
parents' informed consent, even when it comes to drawing cord 
blood.
    Yet it seems that Big Tech companies run tests and 
psychological experiments on our children every single day to 
see which color or sound keeps them addicted the longest.
    In your view, what are the most pressing risks minors face 
from being profiled or studied for commercial purposes online?
    Mr. Berkman. Yes, I would refer the Members to the former 
Surgeon General's advisory on mental health. First of all, the 
longer our children are online, the more at risk they are for 
adverse mental health outcomes, including suicide. They are 
also more at risk for all the acute harms that we see through 
social media: cyberbullying, sextortion, and trafficking as 
well.
    So innovation in the social media industry means, ``How 
many features can we design to get our children to use the 
social media platforms more?'' Our children's time is their 
profit.
    Mrs. Miller-Meeks. Thank you.
    Mr. Thayer, how can behavioral research targeting minors be 
used to shape features that may increase addictive or 
manipulative design patterns?
    Mr. Thayer. Well, we are seeing it play out in realtime. I 
mean, Big Tech's big experiment on our kids is evidence of 
that.
    Not to mention, as Congressman James noted, there is an 
immense amount of research that demonstrates that these 
addictive behaviors will actually manifest in multiple 
different ways even outside of the use of the app. So, even 
after the app is long turned off, they are still susceptible to 
all of the harm that has been caused based off of the 
repetitive nature of the videos, based off of the inundation of 
all the materials and even the features themselves, which 
happens not just at the app layer but at the app store and the 
operating system.
    These devices, on the whole, are designed to keep you 
addicted and designed to keep you--I guess the kids don't call 
it this anymore, but it is called FOMO. And so, ultimately, if 
you take--I mean, just ask any parent who has ever taken a 
tablet or phone away from a child. I mean, you will recognize 
that these kids do not look like themselves after that. They 
act a lot like your average drug addict.
    Mrs. Miller-Meeks. Right. I have seen it in my doctor's 
office with both the parents and with children.
    Thank you so much.
    With that, I yield back.
    Mr. Bilirakis. The gentlelady yields back.
    All right. So we have finished with questioning. However, 
now I would like to recognize Representative Castor.
    Now, I will tell Representative Castor that the documents 
that she is going to propose have already been submitted for 
the record, but you are recognized to elaborate on that if you 
would like.
    Ms. Castor. Well, thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, for 
adding to the record a past KOSA letter of 10/15/25 from 408 
organizations in all 50 States calling on House and Senate 
leadership to pass the Senate version of KOSA.
    Also, a parent letter to Congress of November 24th. It is a 
letter from over 300 parents to the House Energy and Commerce 
urging them to pass the Senate KOSA and stand strongly against 
the demands of the tech industry to gut this and other 
children's online privacy and safety legislation.
    The Common Sense Media opposition letter of December 1st 
opposing these versions of KOSA and COPPA 2.0.
    And the ParentsSOS KOSA 1-pager of December 1st, a 
coalition of over 20 families who have lost their children to 
online harms, with significant concerns about the House 
Republican KOSA draft.
    Mr. Berkman mentioned the U.S. Surgeon General's advisory 
of 2023. It is very important that that is in the record.
    The 2023 American Psychological Association advisory 
examining the potential beneficial and harmful effects of 
social media, including 10 recommendations based on scientific 
evidence.
    The Pew Research Center report on teens, social media, and 
mental health of 2025 saying that roughly one in five teens say 
social media sites hurt their mental health and a growing share 
think that they harm people their age.
    Also, the 2024 Federal Trade Commission report, ``A Look 
Behind the Scenes.'' That is the detailed report finding large 
social media and video-streaming companies have engaged in vast 
surveillance of users, with lax privacy controls and inadequate 
safeguards for kids and teens.
    The Design It For Us letter of December 1st, 2025. Several 
organizations, led by Design It For Us, in support of a strong 
KOSA; in opposition to a Federal provision that would undermine 
existing State protection for kids.
    And the Senate Judiciary hearing materials. If you haven't 
read through the whistleblower materials or the transcripts and 
the questions, that would be very edifying for legislation.
    And the master complaint in the Meta lawsuit, 2025.
    And ``Teen Accounts, Broken Promises: How Instagram Is 
Failing to Protect Minors,'' the 2025 Fair Play report on the 
weaknesses of Meta's teen accounts, spearheaded by a 
whistleblower and verified by university researchers.
    Thank you for including these in the record today.
    Mr. Bilirakis. Absolutely.
    I ask unanimous consent that the documents on the staff 
documents list be submitted for the record. If I don't hear any 
objections, so ordered.
    [The information appears at the conclusion of the hearing.]
    Mr. Bilirakis. OK, folks. Thank you very much.
    Again, I remind Members that they have 10 business days to 
submit questions for the record. And I ask the witnesses to 
respond to the questions promptly. Members should submit their 
questions by the close of the business day on December 16th.
    And I would like to thank everyone for being here today. 
The testimony was excellent. I thought it was a great hearing.
    And I want to thank the parents--the parents that are here 
today on behalf of their children and other children. We 
appreciate you so very much, and the personal stories 
definitely do matter.
    So, without objection, the subcommittee is adjourned.
    [Whereupon, at 1:10 p.m., the subcommittee was adjourned.]
    [Material submitted for inclusion in the record follows:]
    [GRAPHIC NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]

                                 [all]
