================ WITNESS: berkman ================
         Testimony before Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade

                               Committee on Energy and Commerce

                              United States House of Representatives



                                                 Hearing:



                                          December 2, 2025



                                            Marc Berkman

                                       Chief Executive Officer

                               Organization for Social Media Safety



Good afternoon. Chairman Bilirakis, Ranking Member Schakowsky, Chairman Guthrie,

Ranking Member Pallone, and the distinguished members of the Committee, thank you for the

opportunity to testify on this critical issue.



My name is Marc Berkman, and I am the CEO of the Organization for Social Media Safety

(OFSMS), the first national, nonprofit consumer protection organization focused exclusively on

social media. Through education, advocacy, technology, and research, we seek to make social

media safer for families. We conduct cutting-edge research on social media safety. We

advocate on a nonpartisan basis to improve public policy regarding social media safety.

We collaborate with K-12 schools nationwide to educate students, caregivers, and educators on

essential social media safety skills. OFSMS works with hundreds of thousands of families and
educators each year, giving us a uniquely comprehensive view into the emerging and ongoing

threats related to social media use.



OFSMS expresses its sincere appreciation to the leadership and membership of this Committee

for your strong bipartisan efforts to protect families from the dangers associated with social

media use.



Social Media-Related Harms Are a Public Health Crisis



Today, this Committee examines legislation seeking to protect America’s children from online

harm. A reasoned analysis of these proposals requires a review of the threats posed to children

that are caused or exacerbated by social media. While time and space constraints preclude an

exhaustive analysis, even a cursory review demonstrates, with clarity, the severity and

pervasiveness of social media-related injury amongst our children.



Since 2007, social media use has surged across the world with the number of social media users

reaching about 4.76 billion in 2024. Up to 95% of youth ages 13–17 report using a social media

platform, with more than a third saying they use social media “almost constantly.”1 Nearly 40%

of children ages 8–12 use social media.2 In our own research in partnership with UCLA’s School




1
  Vogels, E., Gelles‑Watnick, R. & Massarat, N. (2022). Teens, Social Media and Technology 2022. Pew Research Center:
Internet, Science & Tech. United States of America.
https://www.pewresearch.org/internet/2022/08/10/teenssocial‑media‑and‑technology‑2022/
2
  Rideout, V., Peebles, A., Mann, S., & Robb, M. B. (2022). Common Sense Census: Media use by tweens and teens, 2021. San
Francisco, CA: Common Sense.
https://www. commonsensemedia.org/sites/default/files/research/report/818-census-integrated-report-final-web_0.pdf
of Education and Information Studies, including over 16,000 teens, we have found that about

50% self-report using social media for more than 5 hours daily.3



With this mass adoption of social media, numerous, serious social media-related dangers

have emerged. Here is a sample of the available research showing that social media is

harming millions of American children:



      •    Cyberbullying: About 58% of youth have experienced cyberbullying in their lifetimes.4

           Cyberbullying victims are about 2.5 times more likely to attempt suicide.5 Longer time

           spent on social media increases the likelihood of encountering cyberbullying.6

      •    Self-Harm: According to one study, about 43% of young adults had seen self-harm

           content on Instagram. About 32.5% indicated that they had performed the same or

           similar self-harming behavior consequently.7 In a 2021 internal Meta survey, more than

           8% of respondents aged 13 to 15 reported having seen someone harm themselves, or

           threaten to do so, on Instagram during the past week.8

      •    Disordered Eating: According to one study, new TikTok accounts set up by a 13-year-

           old were recommended self-harm and eating disorder content within minutes of


3
  Ding, Z., Hansen, M. & Ong, C. (2025, April 23-27). Adolescents’ exposure to cyberaggression
and desensitization to cyberhate on social media [Poster session]. American Educational
Research Association 2025 Conference, Denver, CO, United States. https://doi.org/10.3102/IP.25.2197337
4
  Patchin, J. W., & Hinduja, S. (2025). 2025 Cyberbullying data. Cyberbullying Research Center. https://cyberbullying.org/2025-
cyberbullying-data
5
  John, A., Glendenning, A.C., Marchant, A., Montgomery, P., Stewart, A., Wood, S., Lloyd, K. and Hawton, K., (2018). Self-
harm, suicidal behaviours, and cyberbullying in children and young people: Systematic review. Journal of medical internet
research, 20(4), e9044.
6
  Ding, Z., Hansen, M. & Ong, C. (2025, April 23-27). Adolescents’ exposure to cyberaggression
and desensitization to cyberhate on social media [Poster session]. American Educational
Research Association 2025 Conference, Denver, CO, United States. https://doi.org/10.3102/IP.25.2197337
7
  Arendt, F., Scherr, S., & Romer, D. (2019). Effects of exposure to self-harm on social media: Evidence from a two-wave panel
study among young adults. New Media & Society, 21(11-12), 2422-2442. https://doi.org/10.1177/14614448198501
8
  Spinks, R. (2025, November 22). Court filings allege Meta downplayed risks to children and misled the public. TIME.
https://time.com/7336204/meta-lawsuit-files-child-safety/
          scrolling the app’s For You feed. Eating disorder content was recommended within 8

          minutes.9 An internal research document from Meta reporting that teens who expressed

          body dissatisfaction were sent 3 times more body-image related / eating disorder

          adjacent content.10

      •   Sexting: About 20% of teens have sent or posted a nude or semi-nude photo or video of

          themselves with high rates of reported pressure and coercion.11 Amongst adolescents,

          the prevalences of forwarding a sext without consent and having a sext forwarded

          without consent were 12.0% and 8.4%, respectively.12 (Receiving unwanted sexts or

          coerced sexting is linked to mental health challenges like depressive symptoms and

          suicidality, as well as lower self-esteem.) 13

      •   Drug Trafficking: One in four young people see illicit drugs advertised for sale on

          social media.14

      •   Sextortion and Sexual Exploitation: Approximately 5% of middle and high school

          students reported that they had been the victim of sextortion.15 In 2024, NCMEC

          received more than 546,000 reports concerning online enticement, a 192% increase

          compared to reports in 2023. NCMEC received nearly 100 reports of financial sextortion



9
  Center for Countering Digital Hate. (2022). Deadly by design.Cente for Countering Digital Hate Inc.
https://counterhate.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/12/CCDH-Deadly-by-Design_120922.pdf
10
   Reuters. (2021). Viewing content on IG: Internal research document (Redacted). Reuters Investigates.
https://www reuters.com/investigates/special-report/assets/usa-tech-meta-teens/Viewing-Content-on-IG Redacted.pdf
11
   S., P. J. (n.d.). The nature and extent of sexting among a national sample of Middle and high school students in the U.S.
Archives of sexual behavior. https://pubmed ncbi nlm nih.gov/31309428/
12
   Madigan S, Ly A, Rash CL, Van Ouytsel J, Temple JR. Prevalence of Multiple Forms of Sexting Behavior Among Youth: A
Systematic Review and Meta-analysis. JAMA Pediatr. 2018 Apr 1;172(4):327-335. doi: 10.1001/jamapediatrics.2017.5314.
PMID: 29482215; PMCID: PMC5875316.
13
   Wachs, S., Wright, M. F., Gámez-Guadix, M., & Döring, N. (2021). How are consensual, non-consensual, and pressured
sexting linked to depression and self-harm? The moderating effects of demographic variables. International journal of
environmental research and public health, 18(5), 2597.
14
   McCulloch, L., & Furlong, S. (2019). DM for details: Selling drugs in the age of social media. Volteface.
https://volteface me/dm-details-selling-drugs-age-social-media/
15
   Patchin, J. W., & Hinduja, S. (2020). Sextortion among adolescents: Results from a national survey of US youth. Sexual
Abuse, 32(1), 30-54. https://doi.org/10.1177/1079063218800469
          each day in 2024. Since 2021, NCMEC has identified 36 boys who have died by suicide

          because of being victimized by this financial sextortion. Further, NCMEC shared a

          200% increase in reports involving sadistic online exploitation by violent online groups

          that encourage youth to cause harm to themselves and others; these groups manipulate

          children into behaviors such as self-harm; creating CSAM and sexually exploiting other

          children (including siblings); harming animals; committing murder; and suicide. 16

          About 25% of nine-to-twelve year olds have experienced an online sexual interaction

          with someone that they believe to be an adult; applications where the most minors

          reported having had an online sexual experience were Facebook (14%), Instagram

          (13%), Messenger (13%), Snapchat (12%), and TikTok (11%).17

      •   Human Trafficking: Many child trafficking and sex crimes now originate from social

          media sites where predators gain knowledge of their victims’ likes and habits.18


These findings, among many others, indicate acute, verifiable harm related to adolescent social

media use. The extent of social media-related harm is not mere theory; it is proven and ongoing,

and it is distinct from similar threats that impact children in the non-digital world.



Reviewing just a few of the millions of cases of harm, while horrifying, is necessary to

understand the scope of the human toll. Here are some of the recent tragedies:




16
   National Center for Missing & Exploited Children. (2025). CyberTipline report 2025.
https://www missingkids.org/gethelpnow/cybertipline/cybertiplinedata
17
   Thorn. (2024). Youth experiences with online image-based abuse and digital risks: 2024 youth monitoring report.
https://info.thorn.org/hubfs/Research/Thorn 24 YouthMonitoring Report.pdf
18
   United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime. (2020). Global Report on Trafficking in Persons 2020. United Nations publication,
Sales No. E.20.IV.3. https://www.unodc.org/documents/data-and-analysis/tip/2021/GLOTiP_2020_Chapter5.pdf
     •    After suffering severe cyberbullying over social media, Nate Bronstein, forever 15, died

          by suicide.19

     •    Sammy Chapman, forever 16, died after ingesting Fentanyl- poisoned drugs that he easily

          acquired from a drug dealer operating on social media.20

     •    Mason Bogard, forever 15, died after imitating a dangerous challenge he saw on social

          media.21

     •    Gavin Guffey, forever 17, died by suicide after being sextorted over social media.22

     •    Becca Schmill, forever 15, was raped by a man she met on social media. Cyberbullying

          followed. To cope, Becca started self-medicating with drugs purchased over social media

          which tragically were Fentanyl poisoned.23

     •    In April of this year, a 10-year-old girl was abducted by a 27-year-old-man she met on

          social media.24



In addition, to the quantitative and qualitative evidence of acute social media-related harms,

many studies suggest a strong link between social media use and negative mental health

outcomes, especially among adolescents. The former Surgeon General issued a public health on

social media and youth mental health on May 23, 2023.25 The advisory, in our opinion,



19
   About Nate Bronstein. Buckets Over Bullying. (2023, June 23). https://bucketsoverbullying.org/nates-story/
20
   TodayShow. (2021, March 21). Dad of teen who overdosed with drugs from Snapchat recalls moment he discovered son.
TODAY.com. https://www.today.com/health/dr-laura-berman-s-husband-recalls-finding-teenage-son-after-t212415
21
   Bogard, J. (2024, August 4). After her 15-year-old son died trying a viral choking challenge, this mom is fighting for a safer
internet. People. https://people.com/mom-wants-safer-internet-after-son-died-in-a-viral-choking-challenge-8689773
22
   U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of South Carolina. (2025, January 27). Nigerian man extradited to the U.S. after being
indicted for sextortion scheme that caused death of S.C. teen. U.S. Department of Justice. https://www.justice.gov/usao-
sc/pr/nigerian-man-extradited-us-after-being-indicted-sextortion-scheme-caused-death-sc-teen
23
   Becca Schmill Foundation. (n.d.). https://beccaschmillfdn.org/
24
   Rose, A. (2025, April 17). 10-year-old girl kidnapped by man she met on Roblox, police say. CNN.
https://www.cnn.com/2025/04/17/us/california-kidnapping-roblox-girl-hnk
25
   Office of the Surgeon General (OSG). (2023). Social Media and Youth Mental Health: The U.S. Surgeon General's Advisory.
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. https://www.ncbi nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK594759/]
accurately provides a compelling overview of the available research, including the following

highlights:



     •   A longitudinal cohort study of U.S. adolescents aged 12–15 that adjusted for baseline

         mental health status found that adolescents who spent more than 3 hours per day on

         social media faced double the risk of experiencing poor mental health outcomes including

         symptoms of depression and anxiety.26

     •   A study conducted among 14-year-olds found that greater social media use predicted

         poor sleep, online harassment, poor body image, low self-esteem, and higher depressive

         symptom scores with a larger association for girls than boys.27

     •   A synthesis of 20 studies demonstrated a significant relationship between social media

         use and body image concerns and eating disorders, with social comparison as a potential

         contributing factor.28

     •   A longitudinal prospective study of adolescents without ADHD symptoms at the

         beginning of the study found that, over a 2-year follow-up, high-frequency use of digital

         media, with social media as one of the most common activities, was associated with a

         modest yet statistically significant increased odds of developing ADHD symptoms.29




26
   Riehm, K. E., Feder, K. A., Tormohlen, K. N., Crum, R. M., Young, A. S., Green, K. M., Pacek, L. R., La Flair, L. N., &
Mojtabai, R. (2019). Associations between time spent using social media and internalizing and externalizing problems among US
youth. JAMA psychiatry, 76(12), 1266–1273. https://doi.org/10.1001/ jamapsychiatry.2019.2325
27
   Kelly, Y., Zilanawala, A., Booker, C., & Sacker, A. (2019). Social media use and adolescent mental health: Findings from the
UK Millennium Cohort Study. EClinicalMedicine, 6, 59–68. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eclinm.2018.12.005
28
   Holland, G., & Tiggemann, M. (2016). A systematic review of the impact of the use of social networking sites on body image
and disordered eating outcomes. Body image, 17, 100–110. https:// doi.org/10.1016/j.bodyim.2016.02.008
29
   Ra, C. K., Cho, J., Stone, M. D., De La Cerda, J., Goldenson, N. I., Moroney, E., Tung, I., Lee, S. S., & Leventhal, A. M.
(2018). Association of digital media use with subsequent symptoms of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder among
adolescents. JAMA, 320(3), 255–263. https://doi.org/10.1001/jama.2018.8931
More recent research continues to validate the proposition that social media is causing strong

adverse mental health outcomes amongst adolescents:



     •   Longitudinal research shows that both low and high increases in social media use during

         early adolescents were significantly associated with lower (worse) cognitive functioning,

         including memory and reading.30

     •   A 2024 meta-analysis found that social media use was a significant risk factor for self-

         harm and suicidal ideation.31

     •   In our research, in partnership with UCLA’s School of Education, we have found a

         significant, negative correlation between average daily hours spent on social media and

         ratings of life satisfaction amongst 5th through 12th grade students.32



The Social Media Industry Concedes the Significant Harms Caused by Their Platforms



Even social media executives themselves have readily acknowledged the vast safety concerns

here in Congress:




30
   Nagata, J.M., Wong, J.H., Kim, K.E., Richardson, R.A., Nayak, S., Potes, C., Rauschecker, A.M., Scheffler, A., Sugrue, L.P.,
Baker, F.C. and Testa, A. (2025). Social media uses trajectories and cognitive performance in adolescents. JAMA. doi:
10.1001/jama.2025.16613
31
   Chen, Z., Liao, X., Yang, J., Tian, Y., Peng, K., Liu, X., & Li, Y. (2024). Association of screen-based activities and risk of
self-harm and suicidal behaviors among young people: A systematic review and meta-analysis of longitudinal studies. Psychiatry
research, 338, 115991. doi: 10.1016/j.psychres.2024.115991
32
   Ding, Z., Hansen, M. & Ong, C. (2025, April 23-27). Adolescents’ exposure to cyberaggression
and desensitization to cyberhate on social media [Poster session]. American Educational
Research Association 2025 Conference, Denver, CO, United States. https://doi.org/10.3102/IP.25.2197337
     •   Mark Zuckerberg of Meta, conceded among other lapses that Meta, then Facebook,

         “didn’t do enough to prevent these tools from being used for harm.”33

     •   Shou Zi Chew of TikTok, stated that the “security, privacy, and content manipulation

         concerns raised about TikTok are really not unique to us. The same issues apply to the

         other companies.”34

     •   And under questioning from Senator Durbin about ongoing issues with grooming, child

         sexual abuse material, and sextortion, Discord CEO Jason Citron said, “This is an

         ongoing challenge for all of us.”35



Given the evidence, including statements by the social media platforms’ own leadership, no

ambiguity should remain concerning the extent of the harms caused or exacerbated by social

media use.



Compelling Evidence of a Durable Conflict of Interest Between Profits and Safety



The social media industry’s ethical responsibility to protect children from these harms is

unmistakable. Yet, thanks to courageous whistleblowers and the diligent work of state attorneys

general across the country, we now have overwhelming evidence that the industry has repeatedly

chosen to prioritize profits over children’s safety.




33
   Zuckerberg, M. (2018, April 11). Testimony of Mark Zuckerberg, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Facebook. Hearing
before the United States House of Representatives Committee on Energy and Commerce.
34
   Chew, S. (2023, March 23). Testimony of Shou Chew, Chief Executive Officer, TikTok Inc. Testimony before the U.S. House
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
35
   Citron, J. (2024, January 31). Testimony before the United States Senate Committee on the Judiciary: Big Tech and the Online
Child Sexual Exploitation Crisis. U.S. Senate Committee on the Judiciary.
Again, even just a few of the highlights from the whistleblowers and various court filings makes

a most compelling argument for a prevailing culture of willful disregard for the health and well-

being of teen and child users:



     •   New Mexico’s unredacted complaint against Snap Inc. asserts that “Snap also

         complained internally that identifying and protecting minors from sexually explicit

         content and predatory users would overburden its moderators, “create disproportionate

         admin costs,” and should not be its responsibility. Snap employees pointed to a “case

         where an account had 75 different reports against it since Oct. ’21, mentioning nudes,

         minors, and extortion, yet the account was still active.”36

     •   In North Carolina’s case against TikTok, video evidence as released with a TikTok

         executive making the statement: "We obviously wanted people to spend as much time as

         possible on TikTok, which can be in contrast to what is best for your mental health.”37

     •   Utah’s case against TikTok alleges that: TikTok coupled its livestream feature with

         monetization to create an environment built on exchanging TikTok’s virtual currency for

         sexual and illegal acts. TikTok’s internal “Project Meramec” investigation and the

         admissions of its employees document how TikTok LIVE allows adults to pay young

         users to strip, pose, and dance provocatively for “diamonds,” which can be cashed out for

         real money.38


36
   State of New Mexico, Office of the Attorney General. (2024). Amended complaint, State of New Mexico v. Snap, Inc. (First
Judicial District Court, County of Santa Fe, Sept. 30, 2024). https://www nationalreview.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/2024-
09-30-SNAP-NM-Amended-Complaint Redacted.pdf
37
   Cunningham, M. (2025, August 21). TikTok employees raised concerns that app could be addictive, unsealed edited video
shows. CBS News. https://www.cbsnews.com/news/tiktok-employees-apps-mental-health-court-video-north-carolina-lawsuit/
38
   Utah Department of Commerce, Division of Consumer Protection. (2025, January 3). News release: Utah
Division of Consumer Protections announces release of previously redacted information in TikTok Inc. complaint
filing. https://blog.commerce.utah.gov/2025/01/03/news-release-utah-division-of-consumer-protections-announces-
release-of-previously-redacted-information-in-tiktok-inc-complaint-filing/
    •    Frances Haugen, in her testimony before the Senate Commerce Committee said, “I saw

         that Facebook repeatedly encountered conflicts between its own profits and our safety.

         Facebook consistently resolved those conflicts in favor of its own profits.”39

    •    Sarah Wynn-Williams, said in her testimony before the Senate Commerce Committee,

         “During my time at Facebook, now Meta, Executive Officers, including the CEO and

         COO, frequently minimized, dismissed, or even outright denied the many harms that

         resulted from their platforms. As far as I could tell, they did this to justify their continued

         focus on growth, even when it seemed obvious to me and my peers on the Policy and

         Communications team that the company’s growth strategies would worsen the harm

         caused by Meta’s products.”40

    •    Brian Boland, Meta’s former vice president of partnerships who worked at the company

         for 11 years and resigned in 2020. “My feeling then and my feeling now is that they don’t

         meaningfully care about user safety,” he allegedly said. “It’s not something that they

         spend a lot of time on. It’s not something they think about. And I really think they don’t

         care.”41

    •    Instagram’s former head of safety and well-being Vaishnavi Jayakumar testified that

         when she joined Meta in 2020 she was shocked to learn that the company had a “17x”




39
   Haugen, F. (2021, October 4). Statement of Frances Haugen [Written testimony before the U.S. Senate Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation, Subcommittee on Consumer Protection, Product Safety, and Data Security]. U.S. Senate
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. https://www.commerce.senate.gov/services/files/FC8A558E-824E-4914-
BEDB-3A7B1190BD49
40
   Wynn-Williams, S. (2025, April 9). Responses to questions for the record [Written responses submitted to the U.S. Senate
Committee on the Judiciary]. U.S. Senate Committee on the Judiciary. https://www.judiciary.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/2025-04-
09 qfr responses wynn-williams.pdf
41
   Spinks, R. (2025, November 22). Court filings allege Meta downplayed risks to children and misled the public. TIME.
https://time.com/7336204/meta-lawsuit-files-child-safety/
         strike policy for accounts that reportedly engaged in the “trafficking of humans for

         sex.”42



Urgently Needed Federal Response



The clear record of both pervasive, severe harm suffered pursuant to adolescent social media use

and the demonstrated conflict of interest between profit and safety inherent in today’s social

media industry justifies a significant federal public policy response. Every day without social

media safety reform means more harmed children. That is why we are grateful that the

Committee recognizes on a bipartisan basis that a broad approach with multiple tactics is needed:

resources for education, accountability and rules for platforms, research, privacy reforms, and

safety technology. America’s families have waited years for effective social media safety

reform; we need to get effective legislation passed and signed into law this Congress.



Sammy’s Law (HR 2657)



The Organization for Social Media Safety has been closely involved in the development of

Sammy’s Law, as we believe it to enable a proven effective, durable solution in protecting

adolescents from harms related to social media use. I thank the Committee for considering this

bipartisan legislation and would like to detail why we support it.




42
   Spinks, R. (2025, November 22). Court filings allege Meta downplayed risks to children and misled the public. TIME.
https://time.com/7336204/meta-lawsuit-files-child-safety/
Third Party Safety Software. Third-party safety software is an external tool, independent of the

social media platforms themselves, that empowers parents to protect their children by, among

other features, providing alerts when dangerous content is shared through a child’s social media

account. These alerts enable caregivers to intervene with life-saving support at the most critical

moments. For example, if a child is targeted for severe cyberbullying through a social media post

or message, safety software can detect that content and alert the parent, who can then

immediately seek mental health assistance.



Because millions of families already employ third-party safety software for the social media

platforms and operating systems that permit access, its effectiveness in protecting children is

both well-documented and significant. Over the last several years, leading safety software

companies have delivered hundreds of millions of alerts to parents, helping protect millions of

children from serious harm, including sexual predation, suicides, severe cyberbullying, and

trafficking.43 Third-party safety software has averted a documented 16 school shootings.44



Sammy’s Law will provide families full access to safety software. For third-party safety

software to function, social media platforms must grant the safety software provider access to a

child’s social media account, via an Application Programming Interface (API), when authorized

by a parent or guardian. An API is a set of technical instructions that, in this case, allows a

parent-authorized safety software provider to securely access specific data from a child’s social

media account.



43
   Bark Technologies. (2024). Bark's 2024 Annual Report on Children and Technology. Bark. https://www.bark.us/annual-report-
2024/?srsltid=AfmBOor-hzZQmrVMuIAoecP35eP4pY1_5CZZE_dmOBoxDq2MglMiSKCs
44
   Baig, E. (2019, February 19). Can artificial intelligence prevent the next Parkland shooting? USA Today (Online).
https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/2019/02/13/preventing-next-parkland-artificial-intelligence-may-help/2801369002/
While many social media platforms, like YouTube, Tumblr, X, and Reddit, do provide access,

unfortunately, others used significantly by children, like Snapchat and TikTok, do not. This

hesitation likely stems from business concerns that child users would avoid social media

platforms that support safety software in favor of other less secure platforms. To protect

children, parents and guardians must be empowered to choose whether third-party safety

software is the best option for their children.



Third-party safety software fills critical safety gaps left by the parental safety tools already

available directly on social media platforms. In-platform tools simply do not show efficacy in

protecting children from the severe and pervasive range of social media-related harms.



       •   Rudimentary Options: While most major platforms offer some form of parental

           controls, these tools are often limited to basic time restrictions or crude content filters

           and frequently overlook the very places where children face the greatest dangers, like

           private messaging, group chats, and disappearing content. This leaves children

           vulnerable to a range of harms including human and drug trafficking, severe

           cyberbullying, and sexual predation.



       •   Do Not Adapt to Evolving Threats: Moreover, the platforms have little incentive to

           evolve their controls to keep pace with the ever-changing nature of social media-

           related threats. For example, in recent years, drug traffickers have used emoji-coded

           language to sell narcotics to teens. Third-party safety software companies responded
              quickly updating algorithms to detect this new threat and alert parents in real time.

              Meanwhile, platforms like Snapchat took years to publicly acknowledge the problem,

              let alone act. And when they did, they said in an October 26, 2021, Senate Commerce

              Committee hearing, “We have employed proactive detection measures to get ahead of

              what the drug dealers are doing. They are constantly evading our tactics, not just on

              Snapchat but on every platform.” (emphasis added)45



         •    Children Can Bypass: Most built-in tools can be turned off or bypassed by the child,

              undermining their effectiveness entirely.



         •    Work Only on the Individual Platform: The tools on each social media platform

              only work on that particular platform. Unfortunately, many severe social media-

              related threats today are cross-platform. For example, illicit drugs can be marketed on

              a platform like Instagram and then the transaction conducted on a platform like

              Snapchat. Or a child can encounter a predator on a platform like Roblox and then

              continue interacting with the predator more extensively on a platform like Discord.

              Siloed safety tools are substantially less effective at protecting children.



The evidence for the ineffectiveness of in-platform tools is clear in that parents do not utilize

them despite an overwhelming parental desire for more effective safety options. According to

Snapchat founder and CEO Evan Spiegel, there are 20 million teen users of Snapchat, but only




45
  U.S. Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. (2021, October). Protecting Kids Online: Snapchat,
TikTok, and YouTube. https://www.commerce.senate.gov/2021/10/protecting-kids-online-snapchat-tiktok-and-youtube
200,000 parents have activated the platform’s Family Center.46 That’s just 1% of families

making use of Snapchat’s safety features, underscoring how poorly suited and poorly adopted

these measures are.



By contrast, third-party safety software providers are entirely mission-driven and accountable to

parents, not advertisers. Their tools are designed to work across platforms, adapt rapidly to

emerging harms, and empower parents to act before severe harm occurs. Most importantly, the

protection provided is comprehensive, protecting a child from a full range of social media-related

harms throughout the features, spaces, and nooks of the social media platform.



Sammy’s Law would not only improve protection for children, it also would meaningfully

increase children’s privacy. Today, parents are becoming increasingly aware of the significant

risk that social media poses to their children and seek to follow the recommendations of trusted

professional experts, like the American Psychological Association, and provide responsible

supervision of children’s social media use.47 Without comprehensive third-party safety software

access, many parents must resort to manually reviewing children’s devices, duplicating accounts,

or relying on expansive surveillance tools. According to a November 2022 nationally

representative Morning Consult survey ,79% of parents conduct manual reviews of their

children’s devices and social media accounts.48 Unfortunately, not only are these methods far




46
   Malik, A. (2024, January 31). Snap CEO says 20 million US teens use Snapchat, but only 200,000 parents use its Family
Center controls. TechCrunch.
https://techcrunch.com/2024/01/31/snap-ceo-says-20-million-u-s-teens-use-snapchat-but-only-200000-parents-use-its-family-
center-controls/
47
   American Psychological Association. (2023, May). Health advisory on social media use in adolescence.
https://www.apa.org/topics/social-media-internet/health-advisory-adolescent-social-media-use
48
   Morning Consult. (2022, November). Nationally representative survey of U.S. parents on social media safety [Unpublished
survey].
less effective than safety software at protecting children, but they are also incredibly invasive

revealing private conversations and content not connected to any harm or risk. found that 84% of

parents agree current methods are more intrusive than safety software and less effective.49 By

empowering parents with access to third-party safety software on the platforms their children use

most, Sammy’s Law offers a better solution: more targeted, less invasive, and proven to work.



Furthermore, Sammy’s Law also strictly limits what safety software may share with parents.

Under the bill, data may only be disclosed if it relates to a current or imminent risk of harm,

including only listed harms, including suicide, cyberbullying, violence, sexual predation, and

eating disorders. This protection, among other stringent safeguards in the bill, ensure children’s

privacy is strengthened while enabling parents to act against real threats.



The Committee Should Pass Sammy’s Law Without Delay. Sammy’s Law is uniquely

positioned for near-term implementation: it protects children immediately, complements other

proposals under consideration, and avoids many of the constitutional challenges that have

delayed broader state-level reforms. Third-party safety software is an existing, proven solution to

increase safety for young adult social media users; expanding its reach to all major social media

platforms will provide immediate and substantial protection for millions of children, undoubtedly

saving many lives. The status quo is simply unacceptable; parents and guardians need these tools

immediately.



Conclusion


49
  Morning Consult. (2022, November). Nationally representative survey of U.S. parents on social media safety [Unpublished
survey].
The Organization for Social Media Safety again thanks the Committee for holding this hearing

and signaling its intent to pass critical social media safety legislation. We remain available to

provide our insights and assistance in this generationally urgent effort to pass legislation that will

protect America’s children.



I look forward to answering your questions today.

================ WITNESS: thayer ================
                                        Testimony of
                                         Joel Thayer
                                           President
                                 The Digital Progress Institute

                                            Before the

                  Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade
                          Energy and Commerce Committee
                        United States House of Representatives

                                          Hearing titled

                “Legislative Solutions to Protect Children and Teens Online”

                                        December 2, 2025



       Chairman Bilirakis, Ranking Member Schakowsky, Chairman Guthrie, Ranking Member

Pallone, and members of this esteemed committee, thank you for holding this incredibly

important hearing to advance legislative solutions that ensures the health and safety of kids

online. I am Joel Thayer. I am a practicing attorney and sit as President of the Digital Progress

Institute—a think tank dedicated to finding bipartisan solutions in the tech and telecom policy

spaces. Finding political consensus on incremental solutions to today’s acute concerns in tech

policy is at the core of our advocacy. Indeed, some of the bills before you today are based off

frameworks we helped develop.

       This hearing coupled with its bevy of bills makes a few things abundantly clear. First, we

care about our children and their well-being on and off their devices. Second, we are no longer

satisfied with the status quo. In so many ways, today’s youth are robbed of their innocence far

more easily than ever before. This is thanks to the ubiquity of mobile devices and the services


                                                 1
they host. Large tech platforms are inundating kids with lude and lascivious exhibitions and

even connecting them to child predators. This is well documented. Senator Marsha Blackburn

even went as far as describing Instagram as the “premier sex trafficking site in this country.” 1

           Despite what the tech companies trumpet in their press releases, parents are left with

almost no resources to combat their encroachments. Worse, tech companies are, indeed,

perpetuating the problem.

           Herein lies the rub.

           Quite frankly, Big Tech’s form of child exploitation pays well. As we all know, our

children are not only Big Tech’s users but are also their product. Meta specifically targets young

users and even places a monetary value of $270 on each child’s life. 2 But the issue is worse still;

children are not only feeding Big Tech’s algorithms to sell to advertisers but are also used to

inform their respective AI programs. Programs, like chatbots, have already resulted in some

child deaths by encouraging kids to commit suicide. 3 At DPI, we are all for winning the AI war,

but we do not believe children should serve as its casualties.

           It is why the measures you are considering today are so essential to both ensuring that we

remain dominant in the AI race and we protect our most vulnerable populations—children and

teens.




1
 NBC News, ‘That’s Ridiculous’: Zuckerberg Pushes Back on Meta Sex Trafficking Accusation, Website (Jan 31,
2024), https://www.nbcnews.com/video/-that-s-ridiculous-zuckerberg-pushes-back-on-meta-sex-trafficking-
accusation-203337797724.
2
    Heritage Foundation, X @Heritage (Jan 31, 2024), https://x.com/Heritage/status/1752767189663240548.
3
 Angela Yang, Laura Jarrett, & Fallon Gallagher, The Family of Teenager Who Died By Suicide Alleges OpenAI’s
ChatGPT is to Blame, NBC News (Aug. 26, 2025), https://www nbcnews.com/tech/tech-news/family-teenager-died-
suicide-alleges-openais-chatgpt-blame-rcna226147.


                                                        2
          However, we cannot ignore the long road ahead to get these passed. Big Tech’s lobby is

not only fierce but also unrelenting. They mire the validities of these solutions by instilling fears

of consumers forfeiting privacy and the stifling of speech. But this is all a farse.

          As to privacy, I say consider the source. Indeed, courts, regulators, and consumers have

found every one of these companies to have violated their users’ personal privacy. Take Apple,

for instance, that proclaims your privacy is “a fundamental human right.” 4 Discovery from a

class-action lawsuit reveals that, since October 2011, Apple had “routinely recorded their private

conversations after consumers activated its Siri unintentionally, and disclosed these

conversations to third parties such as advertisers.” 5 Some of these disclosures included private

conversations with their doctors. 6 So much for privacy being a “human right.”

          Google is even worse. In fact, one of Google’s privacy violations was so egregious that

the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) created a first-of-its-kind settlement, requiring Google “to

implement a comprehensive privacy program” that it unbelievably didn’t already have. 7

          Social media companies do not fare much better. An FTC report found that social media

companies, like Snap, Meta, and TikTok, have “engaged in vast surveillance of users with lax

privacy controls and inadequate safeguards for kids and teens.” 8




4
 Apple, Privacy, Website (last visited Dec. 2, 2025),
https://www.apple.com/privacy/#:~:text=Privacy%20is%20a%20fundamental%20human,and%20services%20to%2
0protect%20it.
5
 Jonathan Stempel, Apple Must Face Siri Voice Assistant Privacy Lawsuit -U.S. Judge, Reuters (Sep. 2, 2021),
https://www reuters.com/technology/apple-must-face-siri-voice-assistant-privacy-lawsuit-us-judge-2021-09-02/.
6
    Id.
7
 Rachel Courtland, Google Agrees to 20 Years of Privacy Audits, IEEE Spectrum (Mar. 20, 2011),
https://spectrum.ieee.org/google-agrees-to-20-years-of-privacy-
audits#:~:text=The%20FTC%20says%20this%20is,privacy%20of%20consumers'%20information%22..
8
  F.T.C., A Look Behind the Screens: Examining the Data Practices of Social Media and Video Streaming Services,
Staff Report (2024), https://www ftc.gov/reports/look-behind-screens-examining-data-practices-social-media-video-
streaming-services.



                                                        3
            Point being, these companies are hardly an authority on proper privacy hygienics.

            As to free speech, I stand on the shoulders of Third Circuit Judge Paul Matey who

poignantly stated that Big Tech “[s]muggles constitutional conceptions of a ‘free trade in ideas’

into a digital cauldron of illicit loves’ that leap and boil with no oversight, no accountability, no

remedy.” 9 And it’s true. Big Tech has leveraged the (admittedly) messy First Amendment

jurisprudence to turn our bulwark for free expression into a sword to cut down laws they don’t

like.

            But there’s good news. The Supreme Court is creating a clearer pathway for these

measures. To start, in TikTok v. Garland, the Supreme Court categorically rejected TikTok’s

argument that the mere regulation of an algorithm raises First Amendment scrutiny. 10 Even

better, the Court clarified that a law regulating a tech platform doesn’t invite First Amendment

review if the law’s primary justification is not content based, even if its ancillary justifications

are. 11

            In sum, it’s clear from my review, that the bills before us today, particularly the App Store

Accountability Act, the SCREEN Act, and the Kids Online Safety Act, have taken these

considerations into account and are poised to resolve many of the challenges parents are facing

in today’s digital age with respect to child safety.

            I appreciate the committee for inviting me to testify and look forward to your questions.




9
    Anderson v. TikTok, 116 F.4th 180, 185 (3rd Cir. 2024) (Matey, J. concurring).
10
     145 S.Ct. 57 (2024).
11
     Id. at 72.



                                                            4

================ WITNESS: lekas ================
      Testimony before the Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade of the
             Committee on Energy and Commerce, U.S. House of Representatives

                    “Legislative Solutions to Protect Children and Teens Online”

                                             December 2, 2025

                                           Paul Lekas
              Executive Vice President, Global Public Policy & Government Affairs
                         Software & Information Industry Association


  I. Introduction

  Thank you, Chairman Bilirakis, Ranking Member Schakowsky, and members of the
  Subcommittee, for the opportunity to appear before you today. My name is Paul Lekas, and I
  serve as Executive Vice President of Global Public Policy and Government Affairs for the
  Software & Information Industry Association (SIIA). SIIA shares the goals of this Subcommittee
  in making the internet a safer place for all. It is a privilege to join with you to urge Congress to
  pass bipartisan legislation to protect the privacy and safety of children and teens online.

  SIIA represents nearly 400 organizations at the forefront of innovation in the United States
  around the world. For over forty years, we have advocated for the health of the information
  lifecycle, advancing favorable conditions for its creation, dissemination, and productive use. Our
  members range from start-up firms to some of the largest and most recognizable corporations in
  the world. They include the nation’s leading publishers and innovative developers of digital
  products and services for K-20 education, global leaders in AI models and applications and in
  cloud computing, companies specializing in data analytics and information services, academic
  and scientific publishers, creators of legal research and financial databases, and the global
  financial information and market data community.

  Whether in the workplace or the classroom, our members are dedicated to responsible data use.
  SIIA has made it a priority to work with industry to raise the bar on responsible practices. In
  addition to our Child and Teen Privacy and Safety Principles, discussed below, in the past two
  years we have collaborated with industry and policymakers to launch the Principles for the
  Future of AI in Education 1 and the Data Stewardship Best Practices for Data and Analytics




  1
   SIIA, Principles for the Future of AI in Education (2023), available at https://edtechprinciples.com/wp-
  content/uploads/2023/11/Education-Technology-Industrys-Principles-for-the-Future-of-AI-in-Education-
  3.pdf; see also https://edtechprinciples.com/.




SIIA.NET
Companies. 2 These initiatives reflect industry’s interest in promoting practices that advance the
interests of those who rely on their services – students and educators, the financial markets and
consumers – while taking care to protect individuals’ privacy and data security and mitigate the
risk of data and software misuse.

The pace of technological change surrounding the internet, and in particular the way that our kids
and teens interact with that technology, has created new risks. The same technology that enables
close contact with friends, for example, can exacerbate bullying. Thanks to the pressure from
employees, families, children, advocates, and policymakers, companies are working to build
guardrails and features into their products to address those risks and build a more robust and safe
space for youth online. 3

II. The Industry’s Commitment: The SIIA Child and Teen Privacy and Safety Principles

In 2024, SIIA released our Child and Teen Privacy and Safety Principles calling on federal
policymakers to pass legislation to keep kids safe and connected while holding technology
companies accountable for doing just that. 4 Many of the themes in the principles are reflected in
provisions of the bills under consideration today. Our principles seek to advance youth online
privacy and safety through legislation that requires companies and other stakeholders to do the
following:

Minimize collection and use of youth data. Companies must minimize the collection of personal
data from children and teens and restrict the ways that data is used. Data minimization is widely
recognized and required by many state privacy laws for processing data of children and teens. It
is especially important for those populations because children and teens are generally more
trusting and less aware of the risks related to sharing personal information.

Adopt tools that empower children, teens, and families. Companies should implement easy-to-use
and easy-to-access tools that empower youth and families to maintain control of their data and
mitigate potential online harms. Legislation can incentivize companies to provide these sorts of
tools without engaging in content-based regulation.

Foster transparency. Families and youth should have access to clear information about how data
is being used and the ability to control settings. The internet is a tool that families and youth can
use to support learning and connection. Companies should provide information about privacy and
safety provided to children, teens, and families in a manner that is concise, prominent, accessible,
and use clear and plain language. Transparency is an essential mechanism to build trust and

2
 SIIA, Data Stewardship Best Practices for Data and Analytics Companies (2025), available at
https://www.siia.net/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/Best-Practices-in-Data-Stewardship-for-Data-and-
Analytics-Companies.pdf; see also https://www.siia.net/data-stewardship-best-practices/.
3
 This testimony uses the term “youth” to cover both children (under 13 years of age) and teens (under 18
years of age).
4
 SIIA, Child and Teen Privacy and Safety Principles (2024), available at https://www.siia.net/wp-
content/uploads/2024/03/SIIA-Child-Privacy-and-Safety-Principles-.pdf.



                                                                                                    2
demystify what can seem a complicated online landscape. Many state laws require transparency
for online services. The goal is to ensure parents and youth can make informed decisions about
their activities online.

Restrict advertising. Companies should not advertise to youth based on their online behavior or
activity and should not create profiles of youth for the purpose of targeted advertising.
Companies should be permitted to serve contextual ads; this is important to ensure that children
are being served age-appropriate and location-appropriate content.

Protect personal information. Protecting user data, especially the data of children and teens, is a
central tenet of the principles. Companies should implement strong security safeguards
appropriate to the level of personal information that may be collected, used, or shared.

Enable access to educational material. The internet is a part of children’s lives. News,
educational materials, information about sports and hobbies as well as other entertainment can be
online. Youth should be afforded access to information online without the threat that companies
will over-moderate and prevent access to useful, legal content.

Support K-12 media and digital literacy. Legislation and new policies must be accompanied by
support for resources in K-12 schools to implement programs for media and digital literacy.
Children and teens are growing up in a digital world, and it is critical that we prepare them to be
responsible digital citizens. Platforms should also support those digital literacy efforts.

Require risk assessments. Written risk-based impact assessments keep companies accountable for
their practices. Several existing legal regimes already require these assessments, and a federal
requirement should align with existing regimes and encourage adoption of best practices in risk-
based evaluation and assessment preparation.

Empower enforcement. Effective enforcement requires clarity about which government agencies
at the federal or state level have enforcement authority and should be designed to improve
privacy and safety practices. Enforcement should not be watered down with private rights of
action that can lead to frivolous, excessive lawsuits based on mere statutory violations. For
example, enforcement under Unfair and Deceptive Acts and Practices laws provide clear paths
for enforcement action without providing private rights of action that create cottage industries of
litigation.

Provide consistent rules across the U.S. Federal law should be strong, preemptive, and provide
the same protections to all children and teens across the U.S. The emerging patchwork
regulations create confusion among both platforms and consumers. They also create gaps,
because the internet is not cleanly partitioned along state lines. A national framework would
allow companies to put consistent programs in place.




                                                                                                3
III. Specific Legislative Issues

SIIA appreciates the thoughtful approach that the Subcommittee has taken for today’s hearing,
recognizing that there is no single solution to the concerns that have been raised involving youth
privacy and safety. Our goal is to ensure kids remain safe online and retain access to information
and the virtual tools critical in keeping them connected in their communities. Families must also
be empowered to decide what is best for their own family online and to teach kids and teens best
practices for protecting themselves while navigating the internet. And companies should be
encouraged to be proactive in addressing challenges faced on their platforms, apps, or websites in
a manner that recognizes the need for context-specific solutions and the varying risk profiles that
each corner of the internet presents.

In short, we support efforts to pass laws that improve youth privacy and safety. Many provisions
in today’s legislative package achieve that. As the Subcommittee considers these bills in greater
detail, we urge members to take care to avoid unintended consequences and to advance
legislation that meaningfully addresses the challenge at hand.

We are providing preliminary input to key issues raised by the legislation under consideration in
this hearing. As the Subcommittee refines these bills, we look forward to continuing to work with
all members.

First Amendment and Free Expression

SIIA recognizes youth safety as one of the most important of government interests. At the same
time, there are other values that must be balanced against the desire to protect kids online: most
notably those involving free speech. The First Amendment requires that Congress calibrate its
desire to legislate comprehensive youth online safety measures against the need to foster
protected speech.

That is a difficult, but not impossible balance. Most online safety laws are inherently content-
based regulations—they require private businesses to make decisions about speech based on its
subject matter (e.g., whether it is “harmful” or “detrimental” to minors), thus triggering strict
scrutiny from the courts. While the government's interest in protecting children is compelling,
courts have historically struck down federal efforts, like the Child Online Protection Act (COPA),
because they were overbroad, restricting a substantial amount of constitutionally protected adult
speech to shield minors. 5 This scrutiny forces Congress toward less restrictive means, such as
regulating design or privacy conduct, rather than content.

This already challenging landscape has been both clarified and complicated by recent judicial
decisions. The Supreme Court's 2025 decision in Free Speech Coalition v. Paxton 6 provides a

5
  See Ashcroft v. Am. Civil Liberties Union, 542 U.S. 656 (2004) (holding COPA unconstitutional); Reno
v. Am. Civil Liberties Union, 521 U.S. 844 (1997) (holding portions of the Communications Decency Act
unconstitutional).
6
 Free Speech Coalition, Inc. v. Paxton, 606 U.S. ___ (2025), available at
https://www.supremecourt.gov/opinions/24pdf/23-1122_3e04.pdf.



                                                                                                  4
narrow pathway for federal regulation by upholding Texas’s age-verification requirement for
commercial sites hosting unprotected, sexually explicit material, essentially confirming that
regulation targeting content unprotected as to minors may withstand intermediate scrutiny.
However, the logic of this decision is unlikely to extend to general-purpose social media
platforms containing vast amounts of protected, non-sexual speech.

Conversely, the Ninth Circuit's 2024 decision in NetChoice v. Bonta 7 (regarding the California
AADC) is a major constraint on federal legislation aimed at platform design. The court found that
requiring platforms to assess and mitigate the risk of “harm” to children transforms a design
regulation into a content regulation, subject to strict scrutiny and thus likely unconstitutional. It
found that California had less restrictive means to achieve its goals – for example, incentivizing
companies to offer content filters, educating children and families, and enforcing existing
criminal laws. The Ninth Circuit also highlighted concerns raised by the ACLU that vague and
expansive language would likely prevent youth from accessing content such as mental health
resources, information about school shootings, and content reflective of minors’ own religious or
political speech.

A divided three-judge panel of the Eleventh Circuit recently issued an opinion that may provide
additional guidance to lawmakers but is still the subject of active litigation. 8 In a 2-1 decision, the
panel stayed a preliminary injunction that prevented Florida from enforcing a law that would
prohibit users under the age of 14 maintaining or creating accounts on social media platforms and
permit users aged 14 or 15 to maintain accounts only with parental consent. The majority held
that by targeting platforms with “addictive features,” the law was content neutral and subject to
intermediate scrutiny.

In a vigorous dissent, Judge Rosenbaum argued that the Florida law “is not just ‘likely’
unconstitutional; it’s plainly unconstitutional on its face.” He described how the law “directly
regulates both expressive activity itself and conduct with an expressive element,” and noted–with
some force–that the prohibitions not only impermissibly allow the state to control the ideas that
minors can access but prohibit parents from exposing them to those ideas. In that circumstance,
he found the burden on the speech rights of both minors and adults to far outweigh the
government’s interest under either strict or intermediate scrutiny. We think the dissent has the
better of this argument, as this case remains a minority position and would caution the
Subcommittee against putting too much weight on it. That said, if the panel majority’s position
holds, it will support the view that legislation addressing content-neutral design features rather
than content itself stands on stronger constitutional footing. 9

These decisions provide important guidance to Congress as it develops legislation to address a
range of issues involving youth online privacy and safety. Legislation such as the Senate version
of the Kids Online Safety Act (KOSA), which would impose a vague, expansive “duty of care”

7
 NetChoice, LLC v. Bonta, No. 23-2969 (9th Cir. Aug 16, 2024), available at https://netchoice.org/wp-
content/uploads/2024/08/Ninth-Circuit-Ruling_NetChoice-v.-Bonta.pdf.
8
    Comp. & Comm. Indus. Assoc. v. Uthmeier, No. 25-11881 (11th Cir. Nov. 25, 2025).
9
    SIIA filed an amicus brief with the Ninth Circuit supporting the appellee in this matter.



                                                                                                   5
that requires platforms to filter content based on subjective harm, would be likely to run afoul of
the First Amendment.

We are encouraged that several bills the Subcommittee is considering have taken to heart the
fundamental tension between free expression and the interests of youth online privacy and safety.
We encourage the Subcommittee to see the evolving case law in this area not as an impediment
but as a roadmap to identify legislative solutions that address legitimate concerns about online
safety and privacy while also adhering to core American values. Legislation should avoid broad
measures that amount to content filtering while focusing on ways to regulate non-expressive
conduct, narrowly target explicit sexual content, incentivize companies to address gaps in their
privacy and safety protocol, and leverage non-technical tools such as consumer education and
criminal laws.

Modernizing COPPA

The Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998 (COPPA) has served as a critical baseline
for protecting the personal information of children, defined in COPPA as people under the age of
13. Most important is COPPA’s requirement that operators obtain verifiable parental consent
prior to collecting information from a child unless the information is used for internal operations.
The FTC administers COPPA and earlier this year issued long-awaited amendments to
regulations.

The new FTC regulations, 10 approved by the Commission on a bipartisan basis, represent the
latest iteration of an ongoing effort to modernize COPPA. Among other things, the new
regulations recognize the need to make verifiable parental consent reflective of modern
technologies. Whereas a signed consent form sent in via fax was appropriate two decades ago, the
FTC approved newer methods like a knowledge-based authentication process or the use of facial
recognition technologies. The FTC has also updated the definition of personal information to
include biometric identifiers and government-issued identifiers, reflecting the variety of
information on children that could be collected online.

In recent years, the FTC has focused on COPPA enforcement. This year alone, the FTC has
settled a number of matters involving alleged COPPA violations based on enabling a third party
in China to collect geolocation information about American children without parental consent, 11




10
     16 CFR Part 312, available at https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-16/chapter-I/subchapter-C/part-312.
11
  FTC, Online docket for United States v. Apitor Tech. Co., Ltd. (Oct. 1, 2025), available at
https://www.ftc.gov/legal-library/browse/cases-proceedings/apitor.



                                                                                                       6
unlawfully collecting information from children, 12 and deceiving children about the real costs of
in-game transactions. 13

We believe there are further updates that can be made to bring COPPA into the 21st century,
including codifying recent updates into statute. Such updates include aligning to the regulatory
requirements and industry best practices of data minimization and ensuring that platforms only
gather data essential to preserving child safety. Under the current law, companies may engage in
targeted advertising, among other things, with parental consent. As reflected in the SIIA
Principles, we believe targeted advertising – as opposed to contextual advertising – should not be
allowed for youth.

Perhaps most important, given our longstanding work with the educational community, we
believe COPPA needs to be updated to reflect a conflict with the Family Educational Rights and
Privacy Act (FERPA). There has long been a lack of clear line between FERPA and COPPA
despite overlapping requirements. When a school contracts with an operator, the operator should
not be able to use student information for any purpose other than for the educational purpose for
which it was disclosed. This educational purpose limitation is required by FERPA but not
COPPA. Clarifying this by statute would strictly limit operators' use of personal information. The
updates in COPPA 2.0 clarify that educational data may only be used for educational purposes
when technology is used at the direction of the school.

Age Assurance Methods

Age assurance covers a variety of methods used to determine a user's age or age range online,
encompassing age verification, age estimation, and age declaration. Across the spectrum there are
additional approaches that can be adopted – for example, requiring parental consent, estimating
age with facial recognition technology or machine-learning models, or using government-issued
identification. The choice of method depends on the required level of confidence, privacy
concerns, cybersecurity risk, the risk associated with the content or service, technological
availability, and other factors such as access and accessibility. Each method inevitably involves
tradeoffs of important policy goals.

A principal challenge associated with more precise age assurance methods, such as age
verification, is that they require gathering data from all users – not just those who fall within an
age range or below an age threshold. 14 That collection creates outsized security risks and works

12
  FTC, Online docket for United States v. Iconic Hearts Holdings, Inc. (Sept. 29, 2025), available at
https://www.ftc.gov/legal-library/browse/cases-proceedings/232-3029-iconic-hearts-holdings-inc-us-v;
FTC, Online docket for United States v. Disney Worldwide Servcs., Inc. (Sept. 2, 2025), available at
https://www.ftc.gov/legal-library/browse/cases-proceedings/disney.
13
  FTC, Online docket for United States v. Cognosphere, LLC (Jan. 17, 2025), available at
https://www.ftc.gov/legal-library/browse/cases-proceedings/222-3152-cognosphere-llc-us-v.
14
  A recent study by the Center for Democracy and Technology (CDT) found that while “[t]he majority of
participants were not against the concept of online age verification…when discussed in more detail and in
practical terms, most conversations pertaining to the widespread implementation of age verification raised
concerns - including concerns about privacy, security of collected and stored data, their limited trust in


                                                                                                     7
against privacy best practices around data minimization. Age verification requires robust data
collection, making it exceedingly difficult to minimize the sensitive data collected from youth
users. Websites or platforms holding a rich array of sensitive data are more attractive targets for
malicious actors, dramatically increasing the likelihood that a data breach will harm young
people. Requiring technology companies to gather and store that information creates the
opportunity for bad actors to attack and access that information. This vulnerability is more
pronounced for small- and medium-sized companies that may have less robust tools and
resources than larger firms.

The most significant privacy and cybersecurity risk associated with robust age verification
methods—particularly those requiring the submission of government-issued identification or
biometric scans—is the potential for mass data breaches and the creation of centralized identity
dossiers. When platforms or their third-party vendors collect and store highly sensitive PII to
prove age, this data becomes a high-value target for cybercriminals, raising the risk of identity
theft, phishing, and blackmail for all users who comply. Recently, for example, a breach of a
third-party service provider used by Discord to perform age verification led to the exposure of
70,000 government-issued IDs. 15

Furthermore, as discussed by the dissent in the Uthmeier case, mandating verification systems
fundamentally undermines anonymity and can lead to surveillance creep, as the act of linking a
verified identity to online activity transforms the internet experience into a less private space,
potentially chilling the protected speech of both adults and minors who value their right to
anonymous expression. 16

Several other age assurance technologies exist that significantly minimize these privacy and
cybersecurity risks. For example, age estimation, which uses machine learning to predict a user's
age range based on non-identifiable facial characteristics or aggregated behavioral data, is a far
less invasive method. While less certain than verification and prone to bias (especially for certain
demographics), it could be suitable for low-risk contexts and for triggering a higher level of

platforms, and the lack of user agency - all of which left participants uneasy.” Michal Luria and Aliya
Bhatia, “What Parents Want: Policy Insights for Social Media Safety Features,” CDT (Nov. 2025), at 11,
available at https://cdt.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/11/2025-11-24-CDT-Research-Social-Media-Report-
final-1.pdf.
15
  Discord, “Update on a Security Incident Involving Third-Party Customer Service” (Oct. 9, 2025),
available at https://discord.com/press-releases/update-on-security-incident-involving-third-party-
customer-service.
16
   See, e.g., Alice Marwick, et al., Child Online Safety Legislation: A Primer, Princeton Center for
Information Technology Policy, Duke Sanford School of Public Policy, UNC Center for Information
Technology, and Public Life (2024), available at https://assets.pubpub.org/bujb2qf1/COSL-06.04-
11717506843758.pdf; Shoshanna Weissman, “Current age-verification methods threaten our First
Amendment rights beyond anonymity,” R Street Institute (June 22, 2023), available at
https://www.rstreet.org/commentary/current-age-verification-methods-threaten-our-first-amendment-
rights-beyond-anonymity/; Sara Forland, et al., “Age Verification: The Complicated Effort to Protect
Youth Online, New America Open Technology Institute” (Apr. 23, 2024), available at
https://www.newamerica.org/oti/reports/age-verification-the-complicated-effort-to-protect-youth-online/.



                                                                                                     8
scrutiny only when a user's age is uncertain. At the same time, it does not create the same privacy
risks as using hard identity documents.

Following the Supreme Court’s opinion in Paxton, age verification requirements are appropriate
for websites with a significant amount of sexually explicit material. Half the states have laws that
require verification to access sites with one-third sexually explicit material. Outside of that
context, however, legislation that requires age verification is likely to raise First Amendment
challenges on behalf of adult users who believe such requirements limit their ability to access
legal content. Congress would need to establish that the age assurance method required serves a
compelling government interest and is the least restrictive means of advancing that interest.

Congress should look to different methods to incentivize the creation of more age-appropriate
experiences and protect young people online. Creating tools that empower parents and youth with
control over their data and their online experience, using signals to estimate ages and trigger
additional guardrails based on company policies, and creating parental monitoring tools can help
to limit young people’s exposure to harmful content and interactions. 17

Parental Controls

Parental controls are an essential part of youth online safety and privacy. We believe it is
important to empower families as well as youth to manage their online safety and privacy. Every
family is different, as are families’ views on what content and experiences are appropriate for
youth in the online world.

While we support strong privacy standards and giving families tools to exercise appropriate
oversight over their children, there are inevitable challenges. One challenge is age-old: children
and teens are smart and resourceful, and the ability to implement controls requires being aware of
how they can circumvent these controls. This is a challenge that is hard to address through
legislation as opposed to education and improving communication within a family.

Making tools for controlling security and safety features easier for parents to access, understand,
and use, as well as fostering digital literacy among parents and youth is also important. Creating
effective tools and enabling by default is a good start, and ensures that the environment is set up
as best it can be from the start, but we also want parents to be able to exercise their own agency
based on their own judgment about what’s best for their children, and making sure they
understand and can use the tools is essential to that work.




17
   See, e.g., Shane Tews, “Age Verification Laws vs. Parental Controls: Why the Legislatures, Courts, and
Tech Aren’t on the Same Page,” American Enterprise Inst. (Feb. 5, 2025), available at
https://www.aei.org/technology-and-innovation/age-verification-laws-vs-parental-controls-why-the-
legislatures-courts-and-tech-arent-on-the-same-page/; Amanda Reid, et al., “Nerd Harder: A Typology of
Techno-Legal Solutionist Logics in Child Online Safety Laws,” Policy & Internet (Sept. 2025), available
at https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epdf/10.1002/poi3.70012.




                                                                                                    9
Legislation can set and enforce standards, both for the tools themselves and for the information
made available by platforms to parents. It can also leverage social resources to ensure that parents
are provided with information in their communities.

Emerging Trends and AI Chatbots

As lawmakers consider risks associated with emerging technologies such as AI chatbots, we
recommend a focus on clear, evidence-based, and risk-proportionate requirements rather than
broad restrictions that could unintentionally limit access to beneficial technologies including
educational tools, accessibility features, or other creative learning and age-appropriate content.

Building on the SIIA’s existing principles on children and teen privacy and safety, we have been
working closely with our members to develop a comprehensive set of AI chatbot principles, the
SIIA CHAT SAFE Principles, that simultaneously encourages the development of emerging AI
tools while protecting the privacy, safety and security of all Americans. These principles outline
guidance for clear disclosures, harm mitigation, accountability, trust and reliability, security and
privacy, and adaptability.

Extensive legal frameworks exist in regulated spaces. Developers building tools for use in these
spaces and deployers implementing tools in these spaces should ensure that tools align with the
goals of CHAT SAFE as well as other privacy, safety, security, and civil rights requirements.

As Congress considers legislation in this space, we encourage policymakers to align with this
balanced framework that supports innovation and encourages meaningful protections for children
and teens.

Third Party Data Collection and Use

The use of data by third parties has also raised attention. As the Subcommittee considers potential
restrictions on third-party data collection and use, we would urge members to consider the
possibility for unintended consequences. Data providers come in many stripes and in addition to
those data brokers who may engage in practices that undermine youth privacy and safety, many
providers engage in responsible practices that both maintain data security and further the interests
of youth and are in fact essential to their wellbeing.

SIIA has adopted principles for responsible data use earlier this year: Data Stewardship Best
Practices for Data and Analytics Companies. 18 Currently, some SIIA members enable the
limited, but mission-critical use of minors’ data by a range of institutions – colleges and
universities, insurance companies, financial institutions, government agencies, foundations, and
non-governmental organizations (NGOs) – that rely on that data to provide services that minors
and their families rely on. Those include:



18
  SIIA, Data Stewardship Best Practices for Data and Analytics Companies (2025), available at
https://www.siia.net/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/Best-Practices-in-Data-Stewardship-for-Data-and-
Analytics-Companies.pdf; see also https://www.siia.net/data-stewardship-best-practices/.



                                                                                                   10
   ● Extending auto insurance for teen drivers;

   ● Building minors’ credit history;

   ● Targeting colleges’ recruitment efforts to underserved student communities;

   ● Protecting minors against identity theft and fraud;

   ● Identifying candidates for scholarships

   ● Providing financial aid for college;

   ● Assisting in military recruitment;

   ● Suppressing the data of minors who are children of judges and law enforcement officials
     protected by Daniel’s Law-style legislation;

   ● Maintaining data and whitelists to enable age verification where required; and

   ● Tracking exploitation of minors in connection with human trafficking efforts by NGOs
     and financial institutions.

We do not believe that it is the intent of the Subcommittee to disrupt these kinds of everyday
activities. This list demonstrates, however, that too broad of a legislative brush will prevent
valuable uses of this data that many people rely on and take for granted. Successful legislation in
this sphere will both target “black hat” data brokers and preserve the essential uses that society
relies on. We encourage the Subcommittee to use the best practices we developed as a tool to
guide policymaking: raising the bar for industry by identifying the characteristics of responsible
data providers, and enabling the pro-social data uses described above.

IV. Conclusion

Building a safer, healthier, and more useful internet for youth and families requires everybody’s
input and all of us to work together. Our members have taken important steps to provide better
resources and tools for parents and improve protections for youth safety and privacy. We support
legislation that will help to make the internet safer while avoiding unintended consequences by
erecting barriers that expose sensitive data, restricting access to content that ignores children’s
curiosity and ability to work around safeguards, and encouraging youth to seek out darker,
harder-to-regulate spaces.

We hear those who have concerns about the impact of technology on today’s youth. But we
believe the approach must be holistic. Child abuse, CSAM, bullying, and eating disorders existed
long before social media. These are old problems with complicated causes. We believe there is a
role for government to play and there is more that industry can be doing. There is also a need to
focus on non-technical solutions. Education, community building, and support for families are
part of that equation. Our kids should be safe. They should be safe in schools and at home. They
should be safe in youth sports and in their houses of worship. And they should be safe on the




                                                                                              11
internet. Developing these environments requires all of us to work together on solutions that
acknowledge the constant changes in these problems. There are no silver bullets.

The SIIA Child and Teen Privacy and Safety Principles demonstrate industry’s readiness to act,
and eagerness for Congress to pass legislation designed to advance these goals. We stand ready to
work with the Subcommittee to turn these principles into law and provide our best counsel as the
Subcommittee considers the legislation assembled today.




                                                                                                12

================ WITNESS: ruane ================
                                          Testimony of Kate Ruane
                Director of the Free Expression Project, Center for Democracy & Technology

                  For the U.S. House of Representatives Energy & Commerce Committee
                          Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, & Trade
                Hearing Entitled “Legislative Solutions to Protect Children and Teens Online”

                                                   December 2, 2025


        Thank you, Chair Bilirakis, Ranking Member Schakowsky, Chair Guthrie, and Ranking Member
Pallone for the opportunity to testify today on the importance of protecting and empowering kids and
families online.
        I am Kate Ruane, the Director of the Free Expression Project at the Center for Democracy &
Technology (CDT), a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization that defends civil rights, civil liberties and
democratic values in the digital age.1 For three decades, CDT has advocated for Congress to adopt
strong privacy protections and protect free expression online for everyone, adults and children alike.
CDT supported both the American Data Privacy Protection Act (ADPPA) and the American Privacy Rights
Act (APRA) as reasonable compromises that would have protected everyone’s privacy. These were
important pieces of legislation spearheaded by this Committee, which has long demonstrated its
commitment to ensuring everyone in the United States can access and use technology they can trust.
        Children today will use online services, from web browsers, to social media, to search engines,
to chatbots, for their entire lives. The best path forward to protecting children and everyone online and
to addressing root causes of many of the concerns related to minors’ activities on social media and
other online services would be to enact comprehensive consumer data privacy legislation that
meaningfully realigns incentives for the business models of covered services. In the absence of
comprehensive protections for everyone, all stakeholders, including families, companies, civil society,
academics, researchers, technologists, and policy makers, must work together to ensure that young
people can grow and learn to use online services in a safe and age-appropriate fashion, regardless of

1
 This testimony is based on the work and insights of numerous experts within CDT, including Samir Jain, Eric Null, Michal
Luria, Aliya Bhatia, Nick Doty, Travis Hall, and Kristin Woefel.
their race, gender, socioeconomic status, disability, or familial situation. The subcommittee is right to
focus on this critical topic. Our collective future depends on it.
           The efficacy of the legislation the Committee today considers further depends on the efficacy of
the agency and actors entrusted to enforce the law. All of the bills under consideration task the Federal
Trade Commission (FTC) with enforcement or implementation powers. The current Administration is
undermining the independence of the FTC, by purporting to “fire” several independent commissioners
without cause, contrary to law and the Supreme Court’s 1935 decision in Humphrey’s Executor v.
United States.2 The current chair has even taken to calling his agency the “Trump-Vance FTC,” signifying
who is really in charge. These actions threaten the FTC’s ability to enforce the law fairly, the short and
long term implications of which should be of bipartisan concern. Laws without meaningful and fair
enforcement mechanisms are at best just words on a page. At worst, they are political weapons that
can be wielded by those who hold power against those who do not. As the Committee considers the
weighty issues of protecting children online, it must also work to ensure that the agency empowered to
execute its policies will do so fairly and in a manner that protects all children and supports the rule of
law.
​          Today I’d like to raise five critical points essential to protecting children online:
       1.​ Congress should address root causes of online harms including, in particular, privacy.
       2.​ Protecting children includes protecting their right to express themselves online.
       3.​ Age assurance and verification create significant privacy risks that should be mitigated in
           legislation if the government requires or incentivizes its use.
       4.​ Creating good policy requires taking into account the varied perspectives and experiences of
           minors and their caregivers.
       5.​ Congress must not unduly restrict states’ ability to act – ​and, in particular, must reject any
           false deal that conditions kids' online safety on preempting states' ability to regulate AI.




2
    Humphrey's Executor v. United States, 295 U.S. 602 (1935).
                                                                 1401 K Street NW, Suite 200 Washington, DC 20005

                                                                                                               2
    I.​ Congress should address root causes of online harms including, in particular,
      privacy.
        Congress should be mindful not to place legislative bandaids over larger issues. Constitutional
concerns discussed below aside, blocking or restricting minors’ access to social media or “harmful
content” does not address the larger issues underlying the reported increase in youth mental health
problems or the surveillance capitalism business model driving many of the content-related concerns
expressed by legislators, minors, and their caregivers. To the extent possible, Congress should focus on
addressing the root causes of these problems to improve children’s lives both online and off. That
requires passing privacy legislation.
        Currently, many online services’ business models are largely based on advertising sales powered
by platforms’ collection and use of personal information, leading to an overreliance on immediate
engagement metrics as a proxy for user-preference and value.3 This business model is both harmful and
deficient. It is harmful because it is privacy invasive and increases the risks of data breaches and
inappropriate government access to people’s private thoughts.4 It is deficient because it ignores more
durable signals of what is valuable to users about social media and other online services.5
        Congress could disrupt and realign this business model in a way that would benefit not just
children, but everyone who uses internet-enabled services. This Committee has been a leader in
demonstrating what meaningful change to consumer data privacy protections could look like. The
American Privacy Rights Act (APRA) from last Congress included data minimization provisions that
would have required companies to justify their data collection and processing as being “necessary,
proportionate, and limited to provide or maintain . . . a specific product or service requested by the




3
  KGI Expert Report, Better Feeds: Algorithms That Put People First at iv, Knight Georgetown Inst. (March 2025),
https://kgi.georgetown.edu/wp-content/uploads/2025/02/Better-Feeds -Algorithms-That-Put-People-First.pdf.
4
  FTC Staff Report, A Look Behind the Screens: Examining the Data Practices of Social Media and Video Streaming Services,
FTC (Sept. 2024), https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc gov/pdf/Social-Media-6b-Report-9-11-2024.pdf; Justin Sherman,
Data Brokers and Data Breaches, Duke Sanford Sch. of Pub. Pol’y (Sept. 27, 2022),
https://techpolicy.sanford.duke.edu/blogroll/data-brokers-and-data-breaches/.
5
  KGI Expert Report, supra note 3.
                                                              1401 K Street NW, Suite 200 Washington, DC 20005

                                                                                                                            3
individual to whom the data pertains” or for a list of other enumerated permissible purposes.6 These
data minimization protections were designed to better match consumer expectations with reality.7
Specifically, consumers expect companies to collect and use data that is required to provide the service
with which they are interacting. APRA would also have provided additional opt-in consent protections
for transfers of “sensitive covered data,” with additional restrictions on permissible purposes for use,
retention, and transfer of specific highly personal types of sensitive data such as biometric and genetic
information.8
        Enacting data minimization would mark a fundamental change to our current data ecosystem,
which is currently characterized more by data maximization. Companies have incentives to collect and
hoard massive amounts of data to develop detailed individual profiles to target advertising, to train AI
systems, and just in case it becomes useful for some other purpose. Those large data stores become
targets for hackers and data breaches that result in downstream harms like identity theft, reputational
damage, or some other type of injury.9 State privacy laws have not filled that gap for the most part, as
most state laws allow companies to continue setting their own rules with little accountability.10
Maryland is a notable exception, whose privacy law requiring strict necessity for sensitive data
collection just went into effect in October. Privacy legislation, including a strong data minimization
provision, would do the most to reduce and realign incentives for data collection and many of the
practices that can lead to harms to children (and all users).
        While a federal law providing comprehensive privacy protections to everyone is the preferable
path, enhancing children’s privacy protections is also a laudable goal. For more than twenty-five years,
the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA) has been the primary vehicle for protecting


6
  American Privacy Rights Act, H.R. 8818 (118th Cong., 2d session),
https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-bill/8818/text.
7
  See generally Colleen McClain, Michelle Faverio, Monica Anderson, & Eugenie Park, How Americans View Data Privacy,
Pew Rsch. Ctr. (Oct. 2023),
https://www.pewresearch.org/internet/2023/10/18/views-of-data-privacy-risks-personal-data-and-digital-privacy-laws/.
8
  CDT supported APRA only prior to the removal of its civil rights and algorithmic transparency provisions.
9
  Danielle Keats Citron & Daniel J. Solove, Privacy Harms, 102 Boston U. L. Rev. 793 (2022),
https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract id=3782222.
10
   Eric Null, States Are Letting Us Down on Privacy, Ctr. for Democracy & Tech. (Jan 28, 2024),
https://cdt.org/insights/states-are-letting-us-down-on-privacy.
                                                            1401 K Street NW, Suite 200 Washington, DC 20005

                                                                                                                       4
children’s privacy online.11 We were pleased to see H.R. 6291, the Children and Teens’ Online Privacy
Protection Act, a long-planned update to COPPA known as “COPPA 2.0,” on the agenda for
consideration today. CDT has been involved in numerous discussions to refine this legislation to
improve privacy protections for kids and teens online and to ensure it does not infringe on the First
Amendment.
         However, this version of COPPA 2.0 raises new concerns around weakening existing privacy
protections for minors, similar to the concerns raised by the new version of KOSA discussed below and
in Section V of this testimony. The bill would preempt “any law, rule, regulation, requirement, standard,
or other provision having the force and effect of law that relates to the provisions of this Act.”12 This
preemption standard will very likely lead to unintended and harmful outcomes by preventing the
enforcement of state privacy laws that provide protections beyond those that COPPA would offer. In
particular, this standard would weaken existing state privacy laws that protect children’s data as
“sensitive data,” which is often subject to enhanced protections under these laws. Rather than
adopting broad “related to” preemption, the House should change the preemption language in COPPA
2.0 to preempt only “conflicting” state law, to avoid extensive litigation around what state protections
might “relate to” the new COPPA and to ensure COPPA maximizes protections available to children at
the state and federal level.13 We hope to work with Representatives Walberg and Lee as well as
Senators Markey and Cassidy, COPPA 2.0’s main Senate sponsors, to ensure COPPA 2.0 improves and
adds to the kids’ privacy landscape and avoids unintended consequences.
         CDT also appreciates H.R. 6292, the “Don’t Sell Kids’ Data” Act. This bill would generally prohibit
data brokers from collecting, selling, or transferring the personal data of someone they know is a child
or teen and would empower families with a private right of action to enforce the prohibition and


11
   15 U.S.C. §§ 6501-6506.
12
   Children and Teens’ Online Privacy Protection Act, H.R. 6291 (119th Cong. 1st. Sess.),
https://docs.house.gov/meetings/IF/IF17/20251202/118714/BILLS-119HR6291ih.pdf.
13
   See Children and Teens’ Online Privacy Protection Act, S. 836 (119th Cong.) (“The provisions of this title shall preempt any
State law, rule, or regulation only to the extent that such State law, rule, or regulation conflicts with a provision of this title.
Nothing in this title shall be construed to prohibit any State from enacting a law, rule, or regulation that provides greater
protection to children or teens than the provisions of this title.”),
https://www.congress.gov/bill/119th-congress/senate-bill/836.
                                                                   1401 K Street NW, Suite 200 Washington, DC 20005

                                                                                                                                   5
ensure it is meaningful. Data brokers are uniquely harmful actors in the online monetization ecosystem.
Mitigating the harm they cause to children and the risks of the exposure of children’s data to bad actors
is a worthy goal, which CDT supports.


     II.​ Protecting children includes protecting their right to express themselves online.

​         Protecting children online is not just about protecting them from harm. It is also about
protecting their ability to use technology to express themselves, gather information, and communicate
with their peers, parents, families, and friends. An estimated 5.66 billion people use social media as of
October 2025.14 Many of the experiences that people, including minors, have on social media are
positive. Minors use social media to access news,15 organize and engage in protests,16 discuss politics,
learn about art, history and other topics,17 and to create art themselves. One study reported that “[i]n
any given day, about one in 10 tweens and teens will use their digital devices to create some type of art
or music.”18 Many minors also report that social media and online spaces can be important places for
them to find community, form their identities, and receive support that may not be available to them
offline.19 Preserving youth’s access to these spaces and their ability to exercise their free expression


14
   See Christy Tila, Number of Internet and Social Media Users Worldwide as of October 2025, Statista (Nov. 19, 2025),
https://www.statista.com/statistics/617136/digital-population-worldwide/?srsltid=AfmBOorRBPr9l2O3OK2HAUpbP1Lsi4WB
rnc83N16ip gB1X9Fl2sYHqZ.
15
   Christopher St. Aubin & Jacob Liedke, Social Media and News Fact Sheet, Pew Rsch. Ctr., (Sept. 25, 2025),
https://www.pewresearch.org/journalism/fact-sheet/social-media-and-news-fact-sheet/; Michelle Faverio & Olivia Sidoti,
Teens, Social Media and Technology 2024, Pew Rsch. Ctr. (Dec. 12, 2024),
https://www.pewresearch.org/internet/2024/12/12/teens-social-media-and-technology-2024/; Kerry Flynn, How Gen Z
Gets its News, Axios (Feb. 16, 2024), https://www.axios.com/2024/02/16/tiktok-news-gen-z-social-media.
16
   Megan Carnegie, Gen Z: How Young People Are Changing Activism, BBC News (Aug. 8, 2022),
https://www.bbc.com/worklife/article/20220803-gen-z-how-young-people-are-changing-activism.
17
   Jason Kelley, Thousands of Young People Told Us Why the Kids Online Safety Act Will Be Harmful to Minors, EFF (Mar. 15,
2024),
https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2024/03/thousands-young-people-told-us-why-kids-online-safety-act-will-be-harmful-minor.
18
   Victoria Rideout, et al., The Common Sense Census: Media Use by Tweens and Teens 2021 at 41, Common Sense Media
(2021),
https://www.commonsensemedia.org/sites/default/files/research/report/8-18-census-integrated-report-final-web 0.pdf.
19
   Kaitlin Tiches, The Online Experiences of LGBTQ+ Youth, Boston Children’s Digit. Wellness Lab (Jan. 2025),
https://digitalwellnesslab.org/research-briefs/the-online-experiences-of-lgbtq-youth/; Claire Cain Miller, For One Group of
Teenagers, Social Media Seems a Clear Net Benefit, N.Y. Times (May 24, 2023),
https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/24/upshot/social-media-lgbtq-benefits.html; Asaka Park, I’m a Disabled Teenager, and
                                                              1401 K Street NW, Suite 200 Washington, DC 20005

                                                                                                                         6
rights online, even as the Committee works to improve safeguards against harm, is part and parcel of
protecting kids online.
         Minors’ ability to engage and speak online is not only a normative value that supports their
rights and development. It is also a constitutional mandate. A long line of precedent establishes that
children have First Amendment rights and “only in relatively narrow and well-defined circumstances
may government bar public dissemination of protected materials to them.”20 For example, in Brown v.
Entertainment Merchants Association, the Supreme Court struck down a California statute restricting
the sale of violent video games to minors. In that decision, the Court noted, “No doubt a State
possesses legitimate power to protect children from harm, [...], but that does not include a
free-floating power to restrict the ideas to which children may be exposed.”21 The Seventh Circuit,
reviewing a similar ban on minors’ access to violent video games, explained, “[minors] must be allowed
the freedom to form their political views on the basis of uncensored speech before they turn eighteen,
so that their minds are not a blank when they first exercise the franchise.”22 The court reasoned that
“[t]o shield children right up to the age of 18 from exposure to [disfavored or harmful ideas] would not
only be quixotic, but deforming; it would leave them unequipped to cope with the world as we know
it.”23
         It is our task to assist minors in the process of becoming adults who are capable of navigating
online services and digital tools, to ensure they are not “a blank” when they first encounter these
services, shocked and confused by the content that they encounter. To do so, we must work to protect
them from harm in a manner that respects constitutional limitations, and we must also protect their
rights. The government and social media platforms should not be — indeed, with respect to the
government, cannot be — the sole arbiters of the content children can see and services that they can
access online. Substituting the judgment of the government or of social media corporations for the


Social Media Is My Lifeline, N.Y. Times (Jun. 5, 2019),
https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/05/learning/im-a-disabled-teenager-and-social-media-is-my-lifeline.html.
20
   Brown v. Ent. Merchs. Ass’n, 564 U.S. 786, 794 (2011) (quoting Erznoznik v. City of Jacksonville,
422 U.S. 205, 212-13 (1975)).
21
   Id. at 794.
22
   Am. Amusement Mach. Ass’n v. Kendrick, 244 F.3d 572, 577 (7th Cir. 2001).
23
   Id.
                                                           1401 K Street NW, Suite 200 Washington, DC 20005

                                                                                                           7
judgment of minors and their caregivers about what content is appropriate for them to view or engage
with will lead to censorship, especially of controversial or poorly understood topics, including speech
related to LGBTQ issues, firearms, and issues that might increase anxiety like news coverage of armed
conflict or climate change.24 Bills like the current Senate version of the Kids Online Safety Act (KOSA)
and the Kids Off Social Media Act (KOSMA),25 which has become the Reducing Exploitative Social Media
Exposure for Teens (RESET) Act26 in the House, commit precisely this error.
         The Senate version of KOSA would require covered online services to exercise reasonable care in
the creation and implementation of any design feature to prevent and mitigate enumerated harms
such as “depressive disorders and anxiety disorders,” yet the factors that drive these disorders are
varied, complex, and extend well beyond kids’ online environments.27 Senate KOSA would require
platforms to make speculative judgments about how certain constitutionally-protected content and
design features may contribute to these outcomes and how best to prevent them — and put the
government in charge of adjudicating whether platforms guessed right. But parents and their children
— not platforms or governments — are best positioned to make these important choices and, indeed,
have a constitutionally-protected right to do so.28
         This Committee through Chair Bilirakis’s leadership has rightly recognized that this approach,
while well-intentioned, gives too much power to the government to decide what ideas children should


24
   See, e.g., Brooke Tanner & Nicol Turner Lee, Children’s Online Safety Laws Are Failing LGBTQ+ Youth, Brookings Inst. (Jul. 9,
2025), https://www.brookings.edu/articles/childrens-online-safety-laws-are-failing-lgbtq-youth/; Taylor Lorenz, Instagram
Blocked Teens from Searching LGBTQ-Related Content for Months, User Mag (Jan. 6, 2025),
https://www.usermag.co/p/instagram-blocked-teens-from-searching; Daysia Tolentino, YouTube Is Implementing Stricter
Rules Around Gun Videos, NBC News (Jun. 6, 2024),
https://www.nbcnews.com/tech/tech-news/youtube-implementing-stricter-rules-gun-videos-rcna155896.; Daysia
Tolentino, YouTube Is Implementing Stricter Rules Around Gun Videos, NBC News (Jun. 6, 2024),
https://www.nbcnews.com/tech/tech-news/youtube-implementing-stricter-rules-gun-videos-rcna155896.
25
   Kids Off Social Media Act, S. 278 (119th Cong. 1st. Sess.), https://www.congress.gov/bill/119th-congress/senate-bill/278.
26
   Reducing Exploitative Social Media Exposure for Teens Act, H.R. ___ (119th Cong. 1st. Sess.),
https://docs.house.gov/meetings/IF/IF17/20251202/118714/BILLS-119pih-HR RESETAct.pdf.
27
   Kids Online Safety Act, S. 1748 (119th Cong. 1st Sess.), https://www.congress.gov/bill/119th-congress/senate-bill/1748.
See danah boyd, KOSA Isn’t Designed to Help Kids, Substack (Jan. 31, 2024),
https://zephoria.substack.com/p/kosa-isnt-designed-to-help-kids.
28
   See Brown, 564 U.S. at 794; NetChoice v. Bonta I, 113 F.4th 1101,1121 (9th Cir. 2024) (upholding a preliminary injunction
against the enforcement of a requirement for covered services to assess what content might harm children and take action
to address that content because it regulated constitutionally protected speech and did not survive strict scrutiny).
                                                                1401 K Street NW, Suite 200 Washington, DC 20005

                                                                                                                              8
be able to access online and, for that reason, would likely be held unconstitutional, as other similar
laws enacted at the state level have been.29 Legislation more narrowly tailored to address harms that
the constitution permits Congress to regulate is more likely to protect children for the simple reason
that it will not be overturned. The House version of KOSA has improved on the Senate version by
narrowing the duty of care to require covered services to establish, implement, maintain, and enforce
reasonable policies to address threats of violence, sexual exploitation and abuse, distribution, sale, or
use of narcotic drugs, and financial harm caused by deceptive practices.30 These categories of content
target speech that is more likely to fall outside constitutional protection.31
         While the new version has moved in the right direction toward protections and safeguards for
children online that focus on illegal content,32 we are concerned that the preemption provision
currently included in the bill would sweep more broadly than intended or advisable. For example, it

29
   See NetChoice LLC v. Carr, 789 F.Supp. 3d 1200 (N.D. Ga. 2025); NetChoice, LLC v. Yost, 778 F. Supp. 3d 923 (S.D. Ohio
2025), appeal docketed, No. 25-3371 (6th Cir. May 13, 2025); NetChoice, LLC v. Griffin, No. 23-5105,2025 U.S. Dist. LEXIS
61278 (W.D. Ark. Mar. 31, 2025), appeal docketed, No. 25-1889 (8th Cir. May 2, 2025); NetChoice, LLC v. Bonta, 770 F. Supp.
3d 1164 (N.D. Cal. 2025), appeal docketed, No. 25-2366 (9th Cir. Apr. 11, 2025); NetChoice, LLC v. Reyes, 748 F. Supp. 3d 1105
(D. Utah 2024), appeal docketed sub nom., NetChoice, LLC v. Brown, No. 24-4100 (10th Cir. Oct. 11, 2024).
30
   Kids Online Safety Act, H.R.___, (119th Cong. 1st Sess.),
https://docs.house.gov/meetings/IF/IF17/20251202/118714/BILLS-119pih-HR                 KidsOnlineSafetyAct.pdf.
31
   True threats and incitements to violence, child sexual abuse, advertisements for illegal drugs, speech integral to criminal
conduct, and deceptive commercial speech are not protected by the First Amendment. See Counterman v. Colorado, 600
U.S. 66, 74 (2023) (true threats); Brandenburg v. Ohio, 395 U.S. 444, 447 (1969) (per curiam) (incitement to violence); New
York v. Ferber, 458 U.S. 747, 765 (1982) (child sexual abuse material); Central Hudson Gas & Electric Corp. v. PSC, 447 U.S.
557, 563 (1980) (advertisements for illegal activity and advertisements that are misleading are not protected speech),
Giboney v. Empire Storage & Ice Co., 336 U.S. 490 (1949) (speech integral to criminal conduct).
32
   There also may be lingering constitutional concerns with some of the restrictions included in the pared down version of
KOSA. Determining whether particular speech falls outside the ambit of the constitution’s protections is a fact-specific
endeavor. See Counterman, 600 U.S. at 73 (recounting tests for unprotected speech); Central Hudson, 447 U.S. at 563
(describing false commercial speech as unprotected). When applying restrictions on the distribution of content, even illegal
content, courts have been wary of the chilling effects the application of liability to distributors of speech might have. See
Bantam Books, Inc. v. Sullivan, 372 U.S. 58, 71 (1963). KOSA’s duty of care, even the pared down version currently before the
House, requires covered services to make judgments about what content should be covered by its policies often based upon
imperfect information and potentially no information regarding the original speaker’s intent. Mike Masnick, Masnick's
Impossibility Theorem: Content Moderation at Scale Is Impossible To Do Well, TechDirt (Nov. 20, 2019) (“[T}o to make good
decisions you often need a tremendous amount of context, and there’s simply no way to adequately provide that at scale in
a manner that actually works.”)
https://www.techdirt.com/2019/11/20/masnicks-impossibility-theorem-content-moderation-scale-is-impossible-to-do-well.
In addition, covered services will likely use filtering technologies that are necessarily imperfect to comply with the statute.
See Natasha Duarte, et al., Mixed Messages? The Limits of Automated Social Media Content Analysis, Ctr. for Democracy &
Tech. 6 (Nov. 2017), https://cdt.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/11/Mixed-Messages-Paper.pdf. This leaves questions about
whether the duty of care will work as a prior restraint on protected speech, raising constitutional concerns.
                                                                1401 K Street NW, Suite 200 Washington, DC 20005

                                                                                                                             9
could preempt protections enacted at the state level for children interacting with chatbots, even
though KOSA would not apply to minors’ use of chatbots. We hope to work with the Committee to
resolve these concerns.
         The RESET Act, H.R. ___, is more concerning than both the House and Senate versions of KOSA
from a constitutional perspective. The RESET Act would ban all users under 16 from creating an account
on social media services, including ones with appropriate safeguards. As noted above, eliminating
minors’ access to social media accounts would cut them off from online expression, political
engagement, and essential educational resources on services like YouTube, Pinterest, and Reddit. At a
time when books are being banned in schools and curricula are being restricted,33 ensuring young
people can access a broad range of perspectives online — and a broad community — is more critical
than ever. The RESET Act, however, would shut kids under 16 off from this world, in violation of the
First Amendment and contrary to the interests of this Committee in protecting minors. Courts have
already enjoined numerous state laws that attempted to enact similar restrictions for likely violating
the First Amendment.34


 III.​ Age assurance and verification create significant privacy risks that should be
       mitigated in legislation if the government requires or incentivizes its use.

         KOSA and the RESET Act, as well as many of the other bills under consideration today, either
require or incentivize covered services to verify the ages of their users in order to identify which users
are minors and therefore be able to comply with the law. There are at least two broad concerns with
government requirements — whether explicit or implicit — to conduct age assurance.35 The first is

33
   Sabrina Baêta, et al., The Normalization of Book Banning, PEN America (Oct. 1, 2025),
https://pen.org/report/the-normalization-of-book-banning/.
34
   See NetChoice LLC v. Carr, 789 F.Supp. 3d 1200 (N.D. Ga. 2025); NetChoice, LLC v. Yost, 778 F. Supp. 3d 923 (S.D. Ohio
2025), appeal docketed, No. 25-3371 (6th Cir. May 13, 2025); NetChoice, LLC v. Griffin, No. 23-5105, 2025 U.S. Dist. LEXIS
61278 (W.D. Ark. Mar. 31, 2025), appeal docketed, No. 25-1889 (8th Cir. May 2, 2025); NetChoice, LLC v. Bonta, 770 F. Supp.
3d 1164 (N.D. Cal. 2025), appeal docketed, No. 25-2366 (9th Cir. Apr. 11, 2025); NetChoice, LLC v. Reyes, 748 F. Supp. 3d 1105
(D. Utah 2024), appeal docketed sub nom., NetChoice, LLC v. Brown, No. 24-4100 (10th Cir. Oct. 11, 2024).
35
   This testimony will use age assurance as an umbrella term to refer to all techniques to determine the age of users of
online services. It will use age verification to refer to techniques that assess age based upon government issued identifiers.
It will use age estimation to refer to techniques that assess age on the basis of biometric scans, company-held data, or other
methods that do not require the provision of a government ID.
                                                               1401 K Street NW, Suite 200 Washington, DC 20005

                                                                                                                           10
legal. Age assurance requirements often place burdens on access to speech for adults and children
alike, and, as the Supreme Court recently reiterated, that means the First Amendment applies.36 The
second is practical. Currently available age assurance methods may have improved upon past iterations
of the technology, but they have not eliminated the privacy and efficacy concerns raised by their use, as
forthcoming research from experts at Georgia Institute of Technology will demonstrate, and can likely
never do so because conducting age assurance will almost invariably require more data collection and
processing than would otherwise be necessary.37 If the government is going to mandate the use of such
tools to access online services, at a minimum, certain safeguards must be included in those mandates
to mitigate privacy risks and chilling effects on access to constitutionally protected speech.38

             A.​ Legal Concerns with age assurance requirements

        Recently, the Supreme Court, in Free Speech Coalition v. Paxton, upheld an age verification
requirement against constitutional challenge.39 Under that case, states and the federal government are
allowed to require age verification for the purposes of accessing content that is obscene for minors
online. In its opinion, the Court reasoned that minors do not have the constitutional right to access
such content and therefore everyone, both adults and minors, can logically be required to submit to
age verification in order to effectuate a ban on minors’ access. While the First Amendment did apply to
the imposition of age assurance in this context, the Court held that it was an incidental restriction on
speech and therefore permissible.
        However, the decision should be construed to sweep no more broadly than that. It included
important limiting language regarding the scope of what can be considered “obscene” for minors and
therefore subject to age gating. The FSC Court reiterated that content that is obscene as to minors

36
   Free Speech Coalition v. Paxton, 606 U.S. 461, 478 (2025) (hereinafter “FSC”) (holding that age verification requirements
burden adults’ access to content they have a constitutional right to view and must withstand First Amendment review).
37
   See Shreyas Minocha, Isaac Sheridan, Harry Oppenheimer, Paul Pearce, & Michael Specter, Papers, Please: A First Look at
Age Verification on the Web. Georgia Inst. of Tech. (forthcoming).
38
   Aliya Bhatia & Nick Doty, Mitigating Risk to Rights with Age Verification: Privacy-Preserving Guardrails that Should
Accompany Deployments of Age Verification Approaches, Ctr. for Democracy & Tech. (Oct. 10, 2025),
https://cdt.org/insights/mitigating-risk-to-rights-with-age-verification-privacy-preserving-guardrails-that-should-accompany-
deployments-of-age-verification-approaches/.
39
   FSC, 606 U.S. at 465.
                                                               1401 K Street NW, Suite 200 Washington, DC 20005

                                                                                                                          11
includes only “works that (a) taken as a whole, and under contemporary community standards, appeal
to the prurient interest of minors; (b) depict or describe specifically defined sexual conduct in a way
that is patently offensive for minors, and (c) taken as a whole, lack serious literary, artistic, political, or
scientific value for minors.”40 As to what kind of content that might entail, a previous Supreme Court
case, Ginsberg v. New York, had found that “girlie magazines,” like Playboy, could be considered to fall
in this category.41 The FSC Court in a footnote gave additional guidance illustrating how limited this
category of speech is, explaining that it “cannot conceivably be read to cover, say, a PG-13 or R Rated
movie.”42 The Court was very clear in its reasoning that it was upholding the state statute at issue
because it barred minors’ access to content they do not have the constitutional right to view, and the
burden it placed on the speech of adults was tailored to service the goal of restricting access to that
narrow category of content by minors.
        Laws creating age assurance burdens for adults and children to access content that is not
obscene for minors were not addressed in FSC v. Paxton, and earlier precedent holds that these types
of laws should receive the highest degree of scrutiny a court can apply—in part because they would
significantly burden adults’ constitutional rights, in addition to unconstitutionally infringing on
children’s speech rights.43 Where age assurance requires the provision of government identification,
the requirement “serve[s] as a complete block to adults who wish to access [gated] material [online]
but do not” have or wish to provide government identification to do so.44 The number of people lacking
identification is significant: according to the Center for Democracy and Civic Engagement, 21 million
people do not have a current (non-expired) drivers’ license.45 Non-identification-based methods also
create barriers to access for adults. For example, methods relying on mortgage data exclude adults that


40
   Id. at 472.
41
   Ginsberg v. New York, 390 U.S. 629, 634 (1968).
42
   FSC, 606 U.S. at 481 n.7.
43
   Ashcroft v. ACLU, 542 U.S. 656 (2004); Reno v. ACLU, 521 U.S. 844 (1997).
44
   PSINet, Inc. v. Chapman, 362 F.3d 227, 237 (4th Cir. 2004). See also Reno, 521 U.S at 856 (1997) (noting that requiring
credit card information to verify age would serve as a complete bar to users who lacked a credit card).
45
   Jillian Andres Rothschild, et al., Who Lacks ID in America Today? An Exploration of Voter ID Access, Barriers, and
Knowledge at 2, Univ. Md. Ctr. for Democracy & Civic Engagement (Jan. 2024),
https://cdce.umd.edu/sites/cdce.umd.edu/files/pubs/Voter%20ID%202023%20survey%20Key%20Results%20Jan%202024%
20%281%29.pdf.
                                                             1401 K Street NW, Suite 200 Washington, DC 20005

                                                                                                                       12
do not own a home.46 Methods relying on credit card data also exclude Americans who do not have a
credit card, particularly young adults who are often “credit invisible.”47 Each of these methods also
significantly compromises the privacy with which adults can access information online.
         Thus, while the Supreme Court has ruled that Congress may now require age assurance to
access material that is obscene as to minors, age assurance requirements that sweep more broadly
than that to erect barriers to access social media services or reduce access to certain content or
features that are constitutionally protected for everyone remain constitutionally suspect.48 A number of
courts have enjoined state social media bans and age appropriate design codes resembling Senate
KOSA.49 While some appeals courts have stayed or vacated preliminary injunctions against some state
social media bans,50 Justice Kavanaugh’s concurrence in NetChoice v. Fitch expressing doubts about the
constitutionality of social media bans indicates that the Supreme Court might not uphold their
reasoning.51 Accordingly, as this Committee has paid close attention to KOSA to shore up its
constitutionality, it should do the same for other bills which would erect age assurance barriers to
access constitutionally protected speech online.

             B.​ Practical Considerations for age assurance implementation

         To the extent that the government is now permitted to impose age assurance requirements for
accessing certain content, setting aside potential constitutional issues, age assurance techniques

46
   See Reno, 521 U.S at 856.
47
   Id. See also Kenneth P. Brevoort, et al., Data Point: Credit Invisibles at 12, Consumer Fin. Prot. Bureau (May 2015),
https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/201505 cfpb data-point-credit-invisibles.pdf.
48
   Kate Ruane & Aliya Bhatia, FSC v Paxton Made Bad Law, But It’s Not Carte Blanche for Age Verification, Cntr. for
Democracy & Tech (Aug. 22, 2025),
https://cdt.org/insights/fsc-v-paxton-made-bad-law-but-its-not-carte-blanche-for-age-verification/.
49
   See NetChoice LLC v. Carr, 789 F.Supp. 3d 1200 (N.D. Ga. 2025); NetChoice, LLC v. Yost, 778 F. Supp. 3d 923 (S.D. Ohio
2025), appeal docketed, No. 25-3371 (6th Cir. May 13, 2025); NetChoice, LLC v. Griffin, No. 23-5105, 2025 U.S. Dist. LEXIS
61278 (W.D. Ark. Mar. 31, 2025), appeal docketed, No. 25-1889 (8th Cir. May 2, 2025); NetChoice, LLC v. Bonta, 770 F. Supp.
3d 1164 (N.D. Cal. 2025), appeal docketed, No. 25-2366 (9th Cir. Apr. 11, 2025); NetChoice, LLC v. Reyes, 748 F. Supp. 3d 1105
(D. Utah 2024), appeal docketed sub nom., NetChoice, LLC v. Brown, No. 24-4100 (10th Cir. Oct. 11, 2024).
50
   See Comput. & Commc’ns Indus. Ass'n v. Uthmeier, No 25-11881 (11th Cir. 2025),
https://netchoice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/11/11th-Circuit CCIA-NetChoice-v.-Uthmeier HB-3 Ruling Nov-25-2025.p
df; NetChoice, L.L.C. v. Fitch, 134 F.4th 799 (5th Cir. 2025).
51
   NetChoice v. Fitch, 606 U. S. ____ (2025) (Kavanaugh, J., concurring in the denial of an application to vacate stay),
https://www.supremecourt.gov/opinions/24pdf/25a97 5h25.pdf.
                                                               1401 K Street NW, Suite 200 Washington, DC 20005

                                                                                                                           13
continue to raise significant concerns for all users’ privacy and free expression rights.52 Requiring users
to prove their age to access content or services leads to more data collection, processing, and retention
by already data-rich services. Just as importantly, users of all ages lose the ability to access the web
anonymously when they have to provide proof of age documents or other identity-revealing
information beforehand. People go online to access — and speak about— all sorts of sensitive topics
such as their health status, religious or political views, whistleblowing, sexuality, and experiences with
domestic violence. Users often want to access and share this information privately. Because removing
minors’ ability to communicate or access content that may be deemed age-inappropriate requires
sorting minors from adults, all users’ ability to surf the web privately and speak freely is compromised.
This is likely to create chilling effects for many users who are reluctant to seek out sensitive and
important information to which they don’t want to be publicly linked.53
         Given these and other foreseeable harmful consequences, some services may decide to avoid
providing service in jurisdictions with particularly invasive age assurance mandates, obviously
negatively impacting the adults in those jurisdictions who would otherwise want to avail themselves of
those services. Indeed, Bluesky54 no longer offers service in Mississippi for this reason — a “significant
blow”55 for Mississippians. Other services, too, have stopped offering service to Mississippi residents,
ranging from PornHub,56 an adult-content website, to Dreamwidth,57 an open source online j​ournal and
blogging community. These jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction decisions lead to increased fragmentation of the


52
   Bhatia & Doty, supra note 38.
53
   Aliya Bhatia, Age Estimation Requires Verification for Many Users, Ctr. for Democracy & Tech. (Mar. 24, 2025),
https://cdt.org/insights/age-estimation-requires-verification-for-many-users/. See also Kim Zetter, Hackers Finally Post
Stolen Ashley Madison Data, Wired (Aug. 18, 2015),
https://www.wired.com/2015/08/happened-hackers-posted-stolen-ashley-madison-data/.
54
   Megan Farokhmanesh, Bluesky Goes Dark in Mississippi Over Age Verification Law, Wired (Aug. 22, 2025),
https://www.wired.com/story/bluesky-goes-dark-in-mississippi-age-verification/,
55
   Ashton Pittman, Bluesky Blocks Mississippi IPs, Citing State’s Age Verification Law, Free Speech and Privacy Concerns, Miss.
Free Press (Aug. 22, 2025),
https://www.mississippifreepress.org/editors-note-bluesky-blocks-mississippi-ips-citing-states-age-verification-law-free-spe
ech-and-privacy-concerns/.
56
   Jacob Kastrenakes, Pornhub Blocks Access in Mississippi and Virginia Over Age Verification Laws, Verge (Jul. 3, 2023),
https://www.theverge.com/2023/7/3/23782776/pornhub-blocks-mississippi-virginia-age-verification-laws.
57
   Mississippi Legal Challenge: Beginning 1 September, We Will Need to Geoblock Mississippi IPs, Dreamwidth Studios (Aug.
26, 2025), https://dw-news.dreamwidth.org/44429.html.
                                                                1401 K Street NW, Suite 200 Washington, DC 20005

                                                                                                                            14
web, with peoples’ experience of the internet differing from state to state, harming users who can no
longer access the information, communities, networks, or other capabilities the service offers.
           Online safety proposals, including a number of the bills at issue today, often require or
incentivize the use of invasive age assurance mechanisms without sufficient safeguards to govern the
secondary use, retention, and third-party sharing of this data.58 Age assurance approaches often
require platforms to collect hard identifiers of age (such as government ID) or biometric data from all
users as a prerequisite to access the service. This opens the door for vast data collection and retention
from users, and risks linking users’ identity to their online activity, which itself can be incredibly
sensitive. Specifically, biometric data should be treated especially carefully, as it is immutable and easily
abused.
           Researchers at the Georgia Institute of Technology are about to publish a study providing
empirical evidence that the privacy and security concerns related to the use of age verification and
assurance techniques are significant and are, indeed, playing out in real time as age assurance
requirements take effect.59 In particular, the study finds that the widespread implementation of age
assurance, particularly in states that have implemented age assurance requirements, increases privacy
and security risks for end users, can be ineffective, and has increased the balkanization of the internet
in the United States for the first time. The researchers further examined one of the dominant
third-party age assurance vendors and found that the service can require users to share large amounts
of personally identifiable information (e.g., photos of their face, government IDs, credit card
information, browser fingerprinting data and more). Moreover, the information is not only shared with
the contracted service provider. It is also shared with several “fourth parties” that are not as visible to
users. For most age checks, the provider claims data is deleted when the age-check is complete, but,
according to the researchers, that is not always the case. For some ID-based checks, for example, the
provider may hold data for up to 28-days, including a potential data transfer to India. In short, in
popular “commercially reasonable” third-party age assurance provider services, there is almost
certainly more data collection, more sharing of that data with additional parties, more cross-border

58
     See Bhatia & Doty, supra note 38.
59
     Shreyas Minocha, et al., supra note 37.
                                                         1401 K Street NW, Suite 200 Washington, DC 20005

                                                                                                          15
data transfers, and longer data retention than many users or the legislators mandating their use would
expect or support. The findings of this paper demonstrate that age verification vendors present
significant privacy concerns and may not be sufficiently incentivized to maximize user privacy.
        These concerns are far from hypothetical. Just this summer, a popular dating safety app was
hacked, revealing the personal images and comments of thousands of women. The leak included
images of women holding their photo ids for verification purposes, despite the app's claims that such
photos were deleted immediately after authentication.60 Very recently, Discord disclosed that it was
subject to a data breach, in which part of the data that was inappropriately accessed by an
unauthorized third party was users’ IDs provided to Discord as part of the company’s process to appeal
incorrect age estimations made by the platform’s age assurance process.61 And last year, a leading age
verification provider was hacked, allowing users’ names, drivers’ licenses and nationality to be made
available to others on the internet.62 Without robust privacy controls baked in, age verification
mandates significantly increase the risk of such events.
        If Congress nevertheless feels obligated to require or incentivize age assurance, it should also
require guardrails to mitigate the risks to users’ privacy and safety. In particular, Congress should
mandate mechanisms for age assurance are:
            ●​ proportional and narrowly tailored;
            ●​ reliant on high quality sources of data to ensure context-dependent accurate
                verification;
            ●​ nondiscriminatory and uniformly accessible to all;




60
   Alana Wise, Tea Encouraged Its Users to Spill. Then the App's Data Got Leaked, NPR (Aug. 2, 2025),
https://www.npr.org/2025/08/02/nx-s1-5483886/tea-app-breach-hacked-whisper-networks; Emanuel Maiberg & Joseph
Cox, A Second Tea Breach Reveals Users’ DMs About Abortions and Cheating, 404 Media (Jul. 28, 2025),
https://www.404media.co/a-second-tea-breach-reveals-users-dms-about-abortions-and-cheating/; Isabella Kwai, What to
Know About the Hack at Tea, an App Where Women Share Red Flags About Men, N.Y. Times (Jul. 26, 2025),
https://www.nytimes.com/2025/07/26/us/tea-safety-dating-app-hack.html.
61
   Discord, Update on a Security Incident Involving Third-Party Customer Service (Oct. 3, 2025),
https://discord.com/press-releases/update-on-security-incident-involving-third-party-customer-service.
62
   Joseph Cox, ID Verification Service for TikTok, Uber, X Exposed Driver Licenses, 404 Media (Jun. 26, 2024),
https://www.404media.co/id-verification-service-for-tiktok-uber-x-exposed-driver-licenses-au10tix/.
                                                           1401 K Street NW, Suite 200 Washington, DC 20005

                                                                                                                  16
           ●​ private and secure, meaning unlinkable, data-minimized, retention-limited,
               purpose-restricted, securely-implemented, and not shared or distributed;
           ●​ transparent; and
           ●​ accountable and remediable.
       Age assurance approaches should be proportional and narrowly tailored to the harm they seek
to minimize. This means age assurance measures should be required to be implemented as narrowly as
possible, particularly on mixed-audience services. For example, if an age assurance mandate applies to
adult content and only some content on a site falls in that category, the site should be required to apply
age gates to access only the adult content, rather than the entire site.
       Age assurance requirements should mandate reliance on high quality sources of data to verify
age and ensure accurate verification. The data collected by age assurance providers should vary by
context. For example, some providers may already have relevant data about users and need to collect
little additional information to verify age; others will have no information. The appropriate degree of
accuracy may also vary by the particular risks that verification is intended to protect against.
       Additionally, these approaches should be nondiscriminatory and accessible to all users, as
demonstrated by periodic audits and pre- and post-deployment testing. User control tools and age
verification approaches should be uniformly and consistently available and compatible with different
devices and operating systems. This includes ensuring that mechanisms work with parity for all users
regardless of their language, age, race, gender, or nationality. Furthermore, it is particularly important
that age assurance mechanisms are accessible to people with disabilities, including people who are
blind or low-vision, and comply with accessibility standards enshrined within relevant disability rights
statutes, including the Americans with Disabilities Act.
       Companies, including age assurance vendors, should be required to adhere to clear privacy and
security limits to restrict the collection, use, sharing, and retention of the data collected. Age-related
data is not only sensitive but also lucrative, making services that collect and store it attractive to data
brokers or malicious hackers. Information pertaining to a person’s age, date of birth, home address and
birthplace, as well as biometric data, is either immutable or difficult to change and therefore


                                                       1401 K Street NW, Suite 200 Washington, DC 20005

                                                                                                              17
particularly sensitive. In the event of identity theft or improper access, the consequences can be
devastating and difficult to address.
        Specific data protections should include:
             ●​ limiting the collection, sharing, and retention of age-related data for anything other than
                 verifying age;
             ●​ preventing any secondary use of data collected for mandatory age verification;
             ●​ minimizing or entirely preventing linkability between where users provided age-related
                 data and the issuer of that data — e.g., ensuring that the the entity verifying age does
                 not disclose to the issuer of the ID (for example: a state DMV) which sites the user is
                 accessing;
             ●​ declining to collect or store any information not needed to determine the user’s age or
                 age range (e.g., if a user provides an ID, the verifier should not collect information such
                 as a social security number or driver’s license number as well);
             ●​ limiting data retention and deleting data promptly once age or age range has been
                 determined, as the raw data is no longer needed; and
             ●​ implementing cybersecurity measures (e.g., encrypting data in transit and storage) to
                 prevent malicious access to or uses of age-related data.
        Linking IDs (and all of the information on them) to users’ online behavior creates a massive
cyber-security and privacy risk.63 Moreover, the mere spectre of linkability and greater data collection
will chill users’ inclination to access constitutionally-protected speech, a phenomenon demonstrated in
the states and other jurisdictions where age verification laws are already in place and VPN usage has
skyrocketed.64

63
   See Jacqui Wakefield, My Ex Stalked Me, So I Joined a 'Dating Safety' App. Then My Address Was Leaked, BBC News (Aug.
22, 2025), https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/ce87rer52k3o. See also Alana Wise, Tea Encouraged Its Users to Spill. Then
the App's Data Got Leaked, NPR (Aug. 2, 2025),
https://www.npr.org/2025/08/02/nx-s1-5483886/tea-app-breach-hacked-whisper-networks; Emanuel Maiberg & Joseph
Cox, A Second Tea Breach Reveals Users’ DMs About Abortions and Cheating, 404 Media (Jul. 28, 2025),
https://www.404media.co/a-second-tea-breach-reveals-users-dms-about-abortions-and-cheating/.
64
   See, e.g., David Lang, Benjamin Listyg, Brennah V. Ross, Anna V. Musquera, and Zeve Sanderson, Do Age-Verification Bills
Change Search Behavior? A Pre-Registered Synthetic Control Multiverse, OSF (Mar. 2025), https://osf.io/z83ev; Dominic
Preston, The VPN Panic Is Only Getting Started, Verge (Nov. 27, 2025),
                                                              1401 K Street NW, Suite 200 Washington, DC 20005

                                                                                                                         18
        Entities engaged in age verification should be required to delete underlying proof of age data,
such as biometric scans or images of government ID, after the verifier determines the user’s age or age
range. Data that is present on proof of age documents, such as place of birth, date of birth, and more,
are sensitive and difficult or impossible to change; prolonged retention of age-related data or ID-data
makes users vulnerable to identity theft and misuse of their personal data. There is no legitimate
reason for age verification providers to retain this data after age determination, given its sensitivity. It
also opens up companies as targets of malicious attacks by actors seeking to access sensitive data for
profit or abuse. The impact of data breaches can be profound, forcing victims to shut down or secure
bank accounts, freeze their credit at the three big agencies, or acquire new IDs to thwart or rectify
identity theft. Deleting underlying age proof data immediately after verifying age can help verifiers
minimize data breaches and inappropriate access to data, all while better protecting users. Some age
verification providers have promised to delete underlying proof of age data (such as a face scan) seven
days after collecting it to comply with some laws.65 But Georgia Tech’s forthcoming research indicates
the picture may be more complicated than this depending on differing requirements around the world,
and there’s no guarantee every service will delete data they acquire quickly unless they are obligated to
do so.66 Further, proving companies’ compliance with deletion requirements is very difficult for
government enforcers from the outside, which makes whistleblower protections much more important.
Verifiers and policymakers should prefer tokenized age proof systems when available, so that they
never receive the underlying documentation, just an attested proof of age.
        Services required to conduct age verification should also be required to provide users clear
transparency and disclosure on the method used, what data is collected and stored, and with whom
data is shared. Furthermore, users should know who is operating the age assurance system and how to


https://www.theverge.com/tech/827435/uk-vpn-restrictions-ban-online-safety-act; Bryan Schott, Utahns Search for VPNs
After Pornhub Blocks Adult Content from the Beehive State, Salt Lake Trib. (May 3, 2023)
https://www.sltrib.com/news/politics/2023/05/03/utahns-search-vpns-after-pornhub/.
65
   See, e.g., Emma Roth, Ready or Not, Age Verification Is Rolling Out Across the Internet, Verge (Jul. 30, 2025),
https://www.theverge.com/analysis/715767/online-age-verification-not-ready; Jon Brodkin, Reddit’s UK Users Must Now
Prove They’re 18 to View Adult Content, Ars Technica (Jul. 14, 2025),
https://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2025/07/reddit-starts-verifying-ages-of-uk-users-to-comply-with-child-safety-law/.
66
   See Shreyas Minocha, et al., supra note 37.
                                                            1401 K Street NW, Suite 200 Washington, DC 20005

                                                                                                                     19
meaningfully request deletion of data and remedy inaccurate age classification if and when it occurs.
This includes instances where users have already opted into age assurance but change their mind at a
later point and seek to delete their account and the data that was used to verify or assign them an age.
         These criteria match or overlap to some degree with principles set by international regulators in
Europe and beyond. In addition to the forthcoming research mentioned above from Georgia Tech,
other investigations are revealing popular age assurance providers who are not meeting commitments
to privacy set by regulators. For example, an evaluation by AI Forensics of France’s AgeGO, an age
verification provider gating youth access to adult content, found that the provider did not adequately
mitigate risks to user privacy or meet accuracy, transparency, and other set criteria by ARCOM, France’s
independent administrative agency.67
         Each of the bills before this Committee that incentivizes or requires platforms to determine the
age of all of their users in order to sort out which of them are minors should include the above
principles. By holding age verification providers and services that conduct age verification to these
rights-respecting criteria, Congress can minimize the degree to which deployments of age verification
undermine user rights.


    IV.​ Creating good policy requires taking into account the varied perspectives and
         experiences of minors and their caregivers.

​        Minors and their caregivers have strategies for and opinions about managing minors’ online
lives. These strategies and opinions are informed by lived experience that undoubtedly could improve
policymaking by legislators and companies related to minors’ online activities. CDT has conducted
research where we asked a sample of teens and their parents about features proposed in current child
safety proposals, including some that are being considered by the Committee today.68 What we found
can help improve discussions around kids' safety.


67
   Paul Bouchaud, Technical Report: AgeGO Age Verification on Pornographic Platforms, AI Forensics (Sept. 2025),
https://aiforensics.org/uploads/AIF report AgeGO porn platforms.pdf.
68
   Michal Luria & Aliya Bhatia, What Kids and Parents Want: Policy Insights for Social Media Safety Features, Ctr. for
Democracy & Tech. (2025),
https://cdt.org/insights/what-kids-and-parents-want-policy-insights-for-social-media-safety-features/.
                                                                1401 K Street NW, Suite 200 Washington, DC 20005

                                                                                                                         20
     ●​ Age assurance: Parents and teens expressed significant safety and privacy concerns with
        subjecting minors to age assurance methods. They viewed ID-based and face scanning methods
        as particularly invasive and expressed skepticism of their efficacy. Participants favored
        parent-centered approaches that enabled parents to declare their children’s age and consent to
        which apps their children downloaded.
     ●​ Algorithmic Feed Controls: Teens prefer feeds that provide algorithmic recommendations, and
        trust algorithmic recommendations to provide interesting, diverse and appropriate content.
        Their trust is made possible precisely because they feel that they are in control of that content.
        They prefer lightweight controls such as “not interested” functions and swiping quickly to
        display disinterest, over more invasive functions like pop-ups.
     ●​ Screen Time: Parents and teens appreciated reminders of time spent and parent-led limits on
        screen time, but they did not favor app-based, content-based, or third-party enforced limits.
        Strict curfews were viewed as draconian and, potentially, counterproductive.
     ●​ Parental Access and Control: Teen participants were generally accepting of parental visibility
        into their activities, but strongly opposed parental ability to delete content or apps without
        their consent. Parents broadly agreed, preferring to engage in high-level approval of app
        downloads and other significant actions, while viewing controls over every day approvals, like
        joining a group chat or adding a contact, as excessive and unnecessary.


        A number of the bills before the Committee today would require the government to conduct
studies that lead to best practices for children’s safety online. CDT supports that evidence-based
approach. The Kids Internet Safety Partnership Act69 explicitly requires the Partnership to coordinate
with parents and minors, as well as other stakeholders, to identify the risks and benefits for minors
with respect to the use of websites, online services, and mobile applications and widely accepted or
evidence based best practices for minors of different ages. This kind of inclusive consultation in the


69
  H.R. ___, Kids Internet Safety Partnership Act (119th Cong. 1st Sess.),
https://docs.house.gov/meetings/IF/IF17/20251202/118714/BILLS-119pih-HR     KidsInternetSafetyPartnershipActRepFry.
pdf.
                                                          1401 K Street NW, Suite 200 Washington, DC 20005

                                                                                                                21
development of policy will ensure better outcomes for everyone. Moreover, careful and holistic
approaches that study complex issues and draw in multiple perspectives allow a fuller consideration of
the potential interventions all stakeholders can implement. Some interventions, when required by the
government, are unwise or otherwise legally difficult to implement, but when voluntarily implemented
in particular contexts by industry, civil society, technologists, families, or other actors in the online
ecosystem can improve online safety and freedom for minors and adults alike.
         A study approach might help build nuance into company and legislative children’s safety policy
in other ways, and could help fill in research gaps. Many proposals before the Committee today and
many company policies recognize that it is impractical and inappropriate to treat all minors the same as
they age. This was also a reality reflected by the parents and teens who participated in CDT’s recent
study.70 What’s appropriate for children under 13 will not be the same as what’s appropriate for a 16
year old. The content that is appropriate for those age groups will be different and the level of
independence those age groups should have in conducting their online lives should also, likely, be
different.
         Recently, some services have begun to filter and display content differently to teen and minor
users.71 This task is not without its complications, in part, because content moderation systems
themselves are complicated, generally employing a combination of human moderators, automated
recommendations, user reporting tools, and community guidelines to determine what content to
display to whom and when. Researchers have noted the difficulty in determining what content is “age
appropriate.”72 For example, some minors exhibit greater maturity at an earlier age, indicating a
readiness for more adult content, while others take more time to reach certain stages of readiness.
Moreover, different communities define what content is “age appropriate” differently, adding another


70
   Luria & Bhatia, supra note 68.
71
   See, e.g., About Instagram Teen Accounts, Instagram (last visited Nov. 27, 2025),
https://help.instagram.com/995996839195964; Supervised Experiences for Teens, YouTube (last visited Nov. 27, 2025),
https://support.google.com/youtube/answer/15253498; Safeguards for Teens, SnapChat (last visited Nov. 27, 2025),
https://parents.snapchat.com/safeguards-for-teens.
72
   Michal Luria & Aliya Bhatia, The Kids Are Online: Research-Driven Insights on Child Safety Policy, at 17, Ctr. for Democracy
& Tech. (Feb. 2025),
https://cdt.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/02/2025-02-14-Child-Safety-Symposium-Summary-report-final.pdf.
                                                                1401 K Street NW, Suite 200 Washington, DC 20005

                                                                                                                             22
layer of complexity.73 Finally, some filtering for age appropriateness can limit minors’ access to
beneficial and educational content. Over-filtering can — and has — led to the reduction in the display
of appropriate LGBTQ+ content, for example.74 Further study would be helpful to understand how to
define what content is age-appropriate and how to build flexibility into that definition depending on
relevant factors. In requiring further study, Congress might also consider ways to assist researchers in
conducting further study of issues related to kids’ activities online.75


     V.​ Congress must not unduly restrict states’ ability to act – ​and, in particular, must
         reject any false deal that conditions kids' online safety on preempting states'
         ability to regulate AI.

          States have long played a critical role in protecting against harms to children. State level
protections specifically applicable to children online run the gamut from restrictions on access to social
media platforms or constitutional content (laws that raise significant constitutional concerns), to the
creation of educational programs to help children learn to navigate the online world, to meaningful
privacy protections that mitigate the monetization of children’s online activities.76 Generally applicable
laws also provide significant protections for children. These laws might include state unfair and
deceptive trade practices statutes, tort and common law claims, civil rights statutes, educational
protections, criminal laws, and comprehensive privacy statutes that contain heightened standards for
children’s data. Congress should be very careful when seeking to displace that authority and these
existing laws.
          As noted earlier, H.R. 6291, COPPA 2.0, H.R. ___, KOSA, and many of the other bills at issue
today would preempt “any law, rule, regulation, requirement, standard, or other provision having the
force and effect of law that relates to the provisions of this Act.” We are concerned that this standard

73
   Id.
74
   See, e.g., Brooke Tanner & Nicol Turner Lee, Children’s Online Safety Laws Are Failing LGBTQ+ Youth, Brookings Inst. (Jul. 9,
2025), https://www.brookings.edu/articles/childrens-online-safety-laws-are-failing-lgbtq-youth/; Taylor Lorenz, Instagram
Blocked Teens from Searching LGBTQ-Related Content for Months, User Mag (Jan. 6, 2025),
https://www.usermag.co/p/instagram-blocked-teens-from-searching.
75
   Luria & Bhatia, supra note 72.
76
   See, e.g., Social Media and Children 2025 Legislation, National Conference of State Legislatures (last updated Oct. 24,
2025), https://www.ncsl.org/technology-and-communication/social-media-and-children-2025-legislation.
                                                                1401 K Street NW, Suite 200 Washington, DC 20005

                                                                                                                             23
will sweep very broadly to preempt much of the legislation that either specifically protects children or
provides significant protections to children online, even if the bills at issue today do not specifically
cover the activities addressed by the state law or the state law provides better protections for children.
In general, in legislation that provides protections to children, Congress has chosen to narrowly
preempt, if it chose to preempt at all, state level efforts. The preemption standard contained in many of
the bills before the Committee represents a problematic break with that precedent that could
undermine protections in place for children across the country.
        Preemption of state laws is always a fact-specific analysis. Generally, however, the scope of
preemption in any given proposal should correspond to the strength and scope of the protections being
enacted. APRA, for example, was a comprehensive consumer privacy proposal, justifying the
preemption of state comprehensive privacy laws, but APRA also exempted certain categories of laws
from the scope of their preemption clauses, including consumer protection laws of general
applicability, employee privacy laws, student privacy laws, and data breach notification statutes.77
These exemptions rightly sought to preserve longstanding consumer, employee, and student
protections and to avoid unintended consequences.
        The proposed preemption of state laws under APRA and ADDPA also represented what was, in
the view of its authors and supporters, a fair trade-off. Congress would put in place needed protections
that would apply nationwide (instead of only in a specific state) and corresponding state level
protections would be preempted. But the legislation currently under consideration today, even taken
together, would not justify broader preemption of generally applicable laws as they relate to children,
nor would it justify the preemption of other state level protections specifically applicable to children. It
would be both ironic and harmful if Congress’s passage of laws intended to protect children online
ended up leaving them with fewer protections.
        To make matters worse, public reporting indicates that Congress may be negotiating a deal to
pass a kids’ safety package that includes the extremely controversial provision preempting state laws



77
  American Privacy Rights Act, H.R. 8818 (118th Cong., 2d session),
https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-bill/8818/text.
                                                            1401 K Street NW, Suite 200 Washington, DC 20005

                                                                                                            24
on artificial intelligence.78 That would be wholly unjustified. Many of the bills under consideration today
do not meaningfully address emerging technologies like generative AI. To the extent that the bills
before the Committee today do address rapidly emerging AI technologies, they do not do so in a
comprehensive fashion as applied to children. And, of course, these bills do nothing to provide
guardrails or protections with respect to the many various ways in which the use of AI increasingly
impacts everyone in this country, including as to consequential decisions relating to their employment,
finances, education, and health. Bipartisan state legislators,79 Attorneys General,80 and Governors,81 as
well as a broad coalition of civil society organizations, including child safety advocates,82 have all come
out in opposition of such a moratorium. Companies should not get a free pass for committing fraud or
illegal discrimination just because they use AI to do it. Passing any type of broad preemption, including
a broad moratorium, on states’ ability to enact laws related to AI without putting in place strong federal
protections commensurate with the scope of any such preemption would create a situation in which
lawmakers at all levels were unable to enact laws to address harms and risks as AI rapidly evolves and
spreads throughout our economy and society.83




78
   Ruth Reader & Carmen Paun, A Plan to Merge Kids’ Safety with Preempting State AI Laws, Politico (Nov. 26, 2025),
https://www.politico.com/newsletters/future-pulse/2025/11/26/a-plan-to-merge-kids-safety-with-preempting-state-ai-laws
-00668767.
79
   Letter from Brandon Guffey & Liz Larson, et al., to U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate, NDAA State Policymaker
Coalition Letter - Oppose AI Preemption (Nov. 24, 2025),
https://ari.us/wp-content/uploads/2025/11/NDAA-State-Policymaker-Coalition-Letter-11-23-25-Oppose-AI-Preemption.pdf.
80
   Letter from National Association of Attorneys General to House Speaker Mike Johnson and House Minority Leader
Hakeem Jeffries and Senate Majority Leader John Thune and Senator Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, State Attorneys
General Urge Congress to Preserve Local Authority on AI Regulation (Nov. 25, 2025),
https://www.naag.org/policy-letter/state-attorneys-general-urge-congress-to-preserve-local-authority-on-ai-regulation/.
81
   Letter from Gov. Sarah Huckabee Sanders, et al., to Senate Majority Leader John Thune and House Speaker Mike Johnson,
Joint Governors Letter on One, Big, Beautiful Bill AI Moratorium (Jun. 27, 2025).
https://governor.arkansas.gov/joint-governors-letter-on-one-big-beautiful-bill-ai-moratorium/.
82
   Letter from Coalition of Civil Society Organizations to Senate Majority Leader John Thune et al. (Nov. 24, 2025),
https://cdt.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/11/Letter-Opposing-AI-State-Preemption-November-19.pdf.
83
   Travis Hall, Throw the AI Regulations Ban out with the Byrd Bath Water, Ctr. for Democracy & Tech. (May 20, 2025),
https://cdt.org/insights/throw-the-ai-regulations-ban-out-with-the-byrd-bath-water/.
                                                              1401 K Street NW, Suite 200 Washington, DC 20005

                                                                                                                         25
Conclusion
       The Committee is right to express concern about the impact of emerging technologies on
children. The wide range of proposals currently before the Committee contain valuable ideas, including
ones to increase the evidence base through which parents and young people can make decisions about
and increase control over their experiences online. Some also raise constitutional and practical
concerns about young people's access to lawful content, or the ability of adult users to access
information privately and freely online. For these reasons, we urge the Committee to proceed with
judgment and prioritize solutions that protect children's safety while also valuing privacy and free
expression rights.
       Legislative proposals that would enact meaningful data minimization restrictions and other data
privacy protections either for everyone or, at a minimum, beginning with enhancing protections for
children would help to address some of the root causes of many of the concerns for kids’ safety online.
We look forward to working with the Committee members and staff to enact meaningful protections
for children and for everyone online.




                                                     1401 K Street NW, Suite 200 Washington, DC 20005

                                                                                                       26

